1-6: For these questions, choose the best word or
expression to fill the space.

4. IQ tests are often faulted for ignoring cultural or
social biases, particularly with regard to
schoolchildren, and critics claim they cannot
---- predict a person’s future performance.

1. The ageing of population, also known as
'demographic ageing', is a term used to describe
---- in the age distribution of a population from the
young towards people of older ages.
A) opportunities

B) regulations

D) assumptions

A) initially

B) accurately

D) narrowly

C) conventionally

E) strictly

C) shifts

E) conflicts

5. Parents who are responsive, non-authoritarian, and
who manifest empathetic and caring behaviours can
---- the development of empathy in their children.
2. Large collections of books are often unusable
without careful attention to classification, so
providing easy access to library materials using
such labels as author, title, and subject, is essential
for proper ---- of any library.
A) violation

B) justification

D) utilisation

A) delay

B) acknowledge
D) enhance

C) relieve

E) surpass

C) abandonment

E) elimination

6. World War II is an important turning point in that it
---- the beginning of the end of colonial empires.
A) made out

D) took over

3. During the investigation of a lethal or an easily
transmitted disease, the necessary precautions
must be taken to protect health staff, because they
are ---- to catching the disease in question.
A) committed

B) adaptable

D) vulnerable

B) handed down

C) brought about

E) put back

C) entitled
E) accessible

1

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English

7-16: For these questions, choose the best
word(s) or expression(s) to fill the space(s).

9. In the age of steam, with new railroads ---- across
Europe and the US, engineers began ---- even more
applications for the steam engine.

7. New research ---- that mother monkeys ---- to other
females to help share the burden of raising
increasingly dependent offspring.

A) to spread / finding
B) having spread / to have found

A) had suggested / were turning

C) spreading / to find

B) suggests / had turned

D) to have spread / find

C) suggested / have turned

E) spread / having found

D) has suggested / turn
E) will suggest / are turning

10. More than 80 percent of the dry land will be affected
if temperatures continue to increase ---- the present
rate, but ---- very different extents.
A) on / for

8. Patients with implants or electronic devices put
inside their bodies ---- using magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI) because the machine’s magnet ---these objects within the body, causing damage.

B) at / to

D) in / about

C) by / with
E) from / over

A) should not be examined / must move
B) could not be examined / had to move
C) may not be examined / used to move

11. Starting ---- 800 AD, many agricultural communities
emerged ---- the Mississippi and in other fertile river
valleys in North America.

D) cannot be examined / could move
E) must not be examined / ought to move

A) for / by
D) at / in

2

B) over / about

C) on / with

E) around / along

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English

12. 70 percent of the Earth's surface is liquid, ---- water
scarcity affects more than a billion people each year.
A) as if

B) yet
D) instead

15. Wheat, which has been a staple food for centuries,
can turn out to be bad for some people ---- because
they are allergic to it ---- because they have an
autoimmune disorder.

C) given that
E) thus

A) so / that

B) neither / nor

C) as / as

D) the more / the more
E) either / or

13. Alphabetic writing systems are easy to learn and
maximally efficient for transcribing any human
language, ---- they are considered one of the major
achievements of civilisation.
A) otherwise

B) but

D) whether

16. ---- its similarities with other Italian cities, it is
important to emphasise that Venice's aquatic
environment and associations with foreign lands
via the sea endowed it with a uniqueness.

C) so
E) as

A) Due to

B) By means of

D) In case of

C) In terms of

E) Despite

14. ---- historians cannot agree on when gold was first
discovered, there is some evidence to suggest that
the Egyptians were the first to mine it.
A) Now that

B) Just as

D) As long as

C) Even though
E) In case

3

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English
17-21: For these questions, choose the best
word or expression to fill the spaces in the
passage.

19.
A) had better stand

The Atacama Desert in South America is peppered with
odd, cushion-like plants known as the llareta, a spongy
cousin of parsley. Despite the harsh weather conditions
that they have to (17)----, some of these plants are up to
3,000 years old. Though looking like a rock covered by
small green plants without flowers, the plant has a
tightly packed structure of branches, each adorned
(18)---- clusters of tiny leaves. The resulting plant is so
strong that you (19)---- on top of it very comfortably.
(20)----, this hardiness comes at a price: the plants are
thought to grow just 1.5 cm a year. According to
Catherine Kleier, a researcher from Regis University,
Colorado, the llareta became very strong (21)---- a
combination of environmental factors (cold at night and
hot in the day) and it is compact to trap heat. The more
compact the plant, the more successfully it protects
itself.

B) may have stood
C) can stand
D) used to stand
E) must stand

20.
A) For instance

B) However

D) Similarly

C) Therefore
E) Otherwise

17.
A) endure

B) influence

D) trigger

C) avoid
E) improve

21.
A) rather than

B) in addition to

C) contrary to

D) except for
E) because of

18.
A) on

B) at

C) with

D) for

E) over

4

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English
22-26: For these questions, choose the best
word or expression to fill the spaces in the
passage.

24.
A) from

Both Mars and Venus have been objects of scientific
and popular speculation since at least the beginning
of the 20th century, and since the 1960s spacefaring
nations have been sending robotic probes to explore
these two planets. (22)----, Mars has drawn far more
attention. Since 2002 no fewer than two Mars probes
have been actively gathering data during any given
year. There were actually seven used in 2015 alone.
This is (23)---- because Mars is far more hospitable than
Venus, where surface temperatures can reach 480 °C,
surface pressure is 92 times that of the Earth and the
planet is permanently surrounded by thick clouds of
sulfuric acid. We have direct evidence that water once
flowed and pooled (24)---- Mars. So, it can be assumed
that life once existed there and (25)---- at present. Venus
is far more Earth-like than Mars in its size, composition
and surface gravity, but (26)---- its harsh environment, it
could never host life.

B) by

C) toward D) on

E) into

25.
A) may exist
B) must have existed
C) could have existed
D) would have existed
E) used to exist

22.
A) Accordingly

B) Nevertheless

C) Furthermore

D) That is

26.

E) At first

A) due to

B) instead of

C) in comparison to

D) unlike

E) such as

23.
A) coincidental

B) irreversible

D) preventable

C) unintentional

E) plausible

5

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English

27-36: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the given sentence.

29. Even though William Hamilton was not the first
person to come up with the idea for a jet boat, ----.
A) Greek scholar Archimedes had the concept of a jet
boat when he devised his water screw

27. Although buying energy-saving light bulbs and
riding your bike to work are the correct choices to
save the planet, ----.

B) the maneuverability of the jet boat has long made its
design highly marketable

A) we cannot imagine these are going to eradicate the
problem

C) he has been credited with revolutionising the
conventional world of boating

B) we could save the world by relying on renewable
energy sources

D) Italian inventor Secondo Campani had devised a
remarkably similar jet-powered boat

C) that is what we should already be doing to take action

E) he lived in New Zealand, where his boat was able to
power quickly through shallow waters

D) small acts of consumption can be politically activating
E) it seems that people are in search for a complete
solution

30. Although our bones stop growing in length in our
late teens, ----.
28. Since we now generate more data every year than
the entire planet did up until 2003, ----.

A) there is some evidence that too little or too much
protein can reduce bone strength

A) libraries continue to keep records of knowledge in the
form of books

B) it is crucial that we get necessary nutrients to keep
them strong and healthy right through adulthood

B) it is inconceivable to have effective database
management systems

C) from the first few weeks after pregnancy, our bones
grow and develop healthy and strong bone tissues

C) the way we store and preserve that data has to
change

D) sources of dairy and non-dairy calcium can help fight
even hereditary bone conditions

D) it is not possible for data stored on digital platforms to
vanish

E) low bone density disease is largely preventable at any
age with the right diet and lifestyle

E) humanity's cumulative knowledge will not disappear if
stored digitally

6

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English

31. Just as an accomplished writer must help us
visualise events rather than plainly tell them, ----.

33. In 19th-century Europe, women and children were
used extensively in factories ----.

A) storytellers are a significant voice of culture, and their
storytelling takes many forms

A) although only about 20 percent of workers were
employed in factories in 1850

B) a good storyteller is expected to provide not just a
description but an experience

B) when they became aware of the effects of factory work
on their health

C) some people make a living as professional storytellers

C) since they worked for lower wages and compensated
for reluctant male labour

D) the intellectual and emotional impacts of effective
storytellers are undeniable

D) as the factory worker was not characteristic of
European labour in the 19th century

E) the words of storytellers may capture the minds and
feelings of listeners

E) while domestic industry and agriculture engaged most
of the population

32. The huge improvement in levels of readership in
the 1960s largely coincided with the arrival of
television, ----.

34. A recent study shows that workers tend to be more
committed to their institution ----.

A) but there was a dramatic increase in the number of
people who spent their time watching TV

A) when the managers express their gratitude and make
them feel appreciated

B) thus people began to pay more attention to the
best-selling books, especially detective novels

B) even though payments are increased to resolve hot
conflicts

C) because the production of cheaper pocket editions
within reach of a wider range of the population
fostered reading

C) until they are provided with little practical direction
by their bosses
D) even if they engage in new, interesting activities
together with their colleagues

D) so the habit of book reading came to occupy
proportionately less of people's leisure time

E) while supporting each other's attempts to improve
relationships is crucial

E) while the readership of humour, biography, and history
was decreasing among the younger generation

7

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English
37-42: For these questions, choose the most
accurate Turkish translation of the sentences in
English, and the most accurate English translation
of the sentences in Turkish.

35. It is more energy efficient for small birds to move by
hopping ----.
A) but they cover much more distance in a single hop
than with a step with their short legs

37. The arrival of the domestic horse in West Africa
transformed warfare there and turned the area into a
set of kingdoms dependent on the force of cavalry.

B) since birds spending most of their time in trees jump
from branch to branch

A) Batı Afrika’nın atlı asker gücüne bağlı bir dizi krallığa
dönüşmesinin nedeni, evcil atların bölgeye gelişi ve
oradaki savaş anlayışını değiştirmesidir.

C) so there is an extra load on the joints of heavier birds
leaving one leg on the ground all the time

B) Batı Afrika’daki savaş anlayışı evcil atların gelişiyle
değişti ve bölge atlı asker gücüne dayalı bir dizi
krallığa dönüştü.

D) as almost all birds are capable of both hopping and
walking at the same time
E) because of the fact that their light bodies easily
bounce into the air

C) Evcil atların Batı Afrika’ya ulaşması oradaki savaş
anlayışını değiştirdi ve bölgeyi atlı asker gücüne dayalı
bir dizi krallığa dönüştürdü.
D) Evcil atların bölgeye ulaşmasıyla savaş anlayışında
değişiklikler yaşayan Batı Afrika, atlı asker gücüne
dayalı bir dizi krallık hâline geldi.
E) Evcil atların Batı Afrika'ya ulaşması oradaki savaş
anlayışını değiştirerek bölgenin atlı asker gücüne
dayalı bir dizi krallığa dönüşmesine neden oldu.

36. Many of us tend to overlook our mental well-being
----.
A) so that mental health disorders can be correctly
diagnosed through specialised tests
B) until a serious problem arises and we lose balance in
our lives
C) because we should try to maintain good mental and
physical health
D) now that we may have mental health problems when
we experience too much stress
E) although there are many complex reasons why we
develop mental health problems

8

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English

38. A study carried out at Weill Cornell Medical
College has found out how the brain switches
between waking and the unconscious, which
is promising for rousing people from an
unconscious state.

39. Widely regarded as Australia’s capital of culture,
Melbourne is a vibrant city with various surprises
around every corner.
A) Çoğunlukla Avustralya’nın kültür başkenti olarak kabul
edilen Melbourne, her köşesinde çeşitli sürprizler
barındıran canlı bir kenttir.

A) Weill Cornell Tıp Fakültesi'nde yapılan ve beynin
uyanma ve bilinçaltı arasında nasıl geçiş yaptığını
ortaya çıkaran çalışma, insanları bilinçsiz bir
durumdan uyandırma konusunda ümit vericidir.

B) Melbourne’ün çoğunlukla Avustralya’nın kültür
başkenti olarak kabul edilmesinin sebebi, bu canlı
şehrin her köşesinde çeşitli sürprizler barındırıyor
olmasıdır.

B) Weill Cornell Tıp Fakültesi'nde yapılan bir çalışma,
beynin uyanma ve bilinçaltı arasında nasıl geçiş
yaptığını ortaya çıkardığı için insanları bilinçsiz bir
durumdan uyandırma konusunda ümit vadediyor.

C) Çoğunlukla Avustralya'nın kültür başkenti olarak kabul
edilen Melbourne, canlı olduğu kadar her köşesinde
çeşitli sürprizler de barındıran bir kenttir.

C) Weill Cornell Tıp Fakültesi'nde, beynin uyanma ve
bilinçaltı arasında nasıl geçiş yaptığını ortaya çıkarma
ve insanları bilinçsiz bir durumdan uyandırma
konusunda ümit vadeden bir çalışma yapılmıştır.

D) Her köşesinde farklı sürprizler barındıran ve canlı
bir kent olan Melbourne, çoğunlukla Avustralya'nın
kültür başkenti olarak kabul edilir.
E) Melbourne çoğunlukla Avustralya’nın kültür başkenti
olarak kabul edilir, çünkü bu canlı şehir her köşesinde
çeşitli sürprizler barındırır.

D) Beynin uyanma ve bilinçaltı arasında nasıl geçiş
yaptığını ortaya çıkaran ve insanları bilinçsiz bir
durumdan uyandırma konusunda ümit vadeden bir
çalışma, Weill Cornell Tıp Fakültesi'nde yapılmıştır.
E) Weill Cornell Tıp Fakültesi'nde yapılan bir çalışma,
beynin uyanma ve bilinçaltı arasında nasıl geçiş
yaptığını ortaya çıkarmıştır, ki bu insanları bilinçsiz bir
durumdan uyandırma konusunda ümit vericidir.

9

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English

40. Öğretmenler, öğretim yöntemi seçerken,
öğrencilerinin özellikleri ve hâlihazırdaki kaynakların
yanı sıra kendi yeterliliklerini ve bilgilerini de göz
önünde bulundurmalıdırlar.

41. Köpek balıklarının sayısı önemli ölçüde azalıyor ve
bu yırtıcı balıklar yavaş geliştikleri ve nadiren
üredikleri için nüfuslarının hızlı bir şekilde artması
olası görünmüyor.

A) What teachers need to do when choosing a teaching
method is to take their own capabilities and knowledge
into account as well as their students' characteristics
and the resources available.

A) Given that the number of sharks is falling drastically as
these predatory fish slowly mature and seldom
reproduce, there is no likelihood that their population
will increase quickly.

B) When they follow a teaching method, teachers are
expected to consider their own capabilities and
knowledge together with their students' characteristics
and the resources available.

B) Because sharks slowly mature and rarely breed, their
number is falling greatly, and therefore the population
of these predatory fish seems unlikely to increase
rapidly.

C) When choosing a teaching method, teachers should
take their own capabilities and knowledge into account
along with their students' characteristics and the
resources available.

C) The number of sharks is falling dramatically, and since
these predatory fish slowly mature and rarely
reproduce, it seems unlikely that their population
will increase quickly.

D) When implementing a teaching method, teachers
should consider not only their students' characteristics
and the resources available but also their own
capabilities and knowledge.

D) It seems unlikely that shark population will increase
quickly since these predatory fish, whose number
is falling considerably, slowly mature and seldom
breed.

E) Their own capabilities and knowledge besides their
students' characteristics and the resources available
should be taken into account by teachers when
choosing a teaching method.

E) The number of sharks is falling substantially, and
because these predatory fish slowly mature and rarely
reproduce, it is not probable that there will be a
significant increase in their population.

10

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English

42. Dünya üzerinde yaşam başladığından bu yana yüz
milyonlarca bitki ve hayvan türünün nesli tükendi ve
insanlar son 300 yıldır doğal yaşam alanlarını tahrip
ederek yok olma sürecini büyük ölçüde hızlandırdı.
A) Since life began on Earth, hundreds of millions of
species of plants and animals have been threatened
with extinction, and over the past 300 years the
extinction process has substantially accelerated due to
habitat destruction caused by people.
B) Hundreds of millions of species of plants and animals
have become extinct since life began on Earth, and
over the past 300 years people have been damaging
habitats, thus significantly speeding up the extinction
process.
C) Hundreds of millions of species of plants and animals
have become extinct since life began on Earth, and
over the past 300 years people have dramatically
speeded up the extinction process by destroying
habitats.
D) Since life began on Earth, hundreds of millions of
species of plants and animals have become extinct,
and habitats have been damaged by people, which
has substantially accelerated the extinction process
for the past 300 years.
E) There are hundreds of millions of species of plants
and animals that have faced extinction since life began
on Earth, and people who are destroying habitats have
dramatically speeded up the extinction process for the
past 300 years.

11

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English
43-46: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

44. It is pointed out in the passage that in the 1950s, car
manufacturers ----.

One day in 1952, John W. Hetrick was driving with his
wife and daughter in the front seat when he had to
change his direction suddenly and brake quickly to
avoid an obstacle. Instinctively, he and his wife put their
arms out to protect their daughter in case of a crash.
This event inspired him to provide automobiles with
airbags to protect people during accidents. Hetrick had
been an engineer in the US Navy during World War II.
He recalled a compressed-air torpedo accidentally
turning itself on, causing its canvas cover to shoot up
into the air, 'quicker than a blink of an eye'. In 1952,
Hetrick proposed using compressed air to inflate airbags
rapidly during car crashes. He received a patent for this
invention in 1953, but car manufacturers in the 1950s
were more interested in style than safety. Later,
consumers became more safety conscious and airbag
technology improved. The first airbags were optional,
but by the 1990s, they had become standard. Although
airbags have saved thousands of lives, they are not
always sufficient to prevent death and injury during
crashes. Travellers must also wear seat belts, and
automobiles must have dashboards made of soft
materials and steering columns that can absorb energy
during impact from car crashes.

A) developed a compressed mechanism which inflated
airbags swiftly
B) benefitted from optional airbags to raise the safety
awareness among the customers
C) paid more attention to the physical appearance of cars
rather than their safety
D) started to produce standard airbags in line with the
innovations in airbag technology
E) were highly concerned with safety requirements
imposed on automobile industry

45. Which of the following can be inferred from the
passage?
A) The injuries and deaths in car accidents can be
completely prevented with airbags.
B) As soon as Hetrick patented the airbag, it became
obligatory for manufacturers to equip cars with
airbags.
C) The dashboards and steering columns of automobiles
should be designed elaborately to increase the
efficiency of airbags.

43. It can be understood from the passage that the
airbags were ----.

D) Travellers are expected to fasten their seat belts which
enable the airbags to inflate more quickly.

A) widely accepted when they were first introduced in
1952

E) Automobile designs are required to manipulate the
energy in a crash in order to save people’s lives.

B) invented with the fundamental aim of making cars look
more attractive
C) manufactured largely in order to improve automobile
marketing and increase the sales
D) invented by a US engineer while he was launching the
canvas cover into the air
E) designed to work very fast to provide immediate
protection for people

12

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English

46. Which could be the best title for the passage?
A) Advances in the Automobile Industry
B) An Alternative Way to Save Life
C) Airbags as a Safety Regulation
D) How to Prevent Car Accidents with Airbags
E) The Advance of Airbag Technology

13

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English
47-50: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

48. Which of the following makes chimpanzees
resemble us?

An application to translate chimp language may be
available in the near future! Chimpanzees can learn
to pronounce 'apple' in two chimp languages – a finding
that calls into question how unique our own language
ability is. Katie Slocombe of the University of York, UK,
and her team recorded vocalisations by a group of adult
chimps from the Netherlands before and after their
relocation to Edinburgh Zoo. Three years after the
move, the Dutch chimps has picked up the
pronunciation of their Scottish hosts. The peak
frequencies of the Dutch chimps' loud calls fell from 932
to 708 hertz to match closely with the low-toned
pronunciations of the Scottish apes. The change was
gradual and coincided with the growing friendship of the
two groups. This means that, like us, chimps can learn
foreign language to fit in with new neighbours. The
finding also challenges the prevailing theory that chimp
words for objects are fixed because they result from
excited, involuntary outbursts. The general assumption
was that animals do not have control over the sounds
they make, whereas we learn the labels for things
socially, which is what separates us from animals,
states Slocombe. But this may be wrong, it seems. "It is
the first time call structure has been dissociated from
emotional outbursts," she says.

A) Their language learning ability to get involved in a
foreign environment
B) The fixed words that they use to refer to objects
C) The association between their words and emotional
outbursts
D) Their capability to decrease the peak frequencies of
their loud calls
E) The three-year period in which they can learn a foreign
language

49. What does the passage mainly focus on?
A) The differences between the Dutch and Scottish apes
in Edinburgh Zoo
B) Why it took three years for the Dutch chimps to
establish friendship with the Scottish apes
C) How chimps differ from humans in their language
ability
D) How chimps can learn to pronounce words through
socialising

47. It is pointed out in the passage that after being
relocated, the Dutch chimps ----.

E) The importance of emotional outbursts for chimps

A) changed the pronunciation patterns of their Scottish
hosts
B) had increasing frequencies of loud calls
C) had a low-toned pronunciation as they did in the
Netherlands
D) began to make sounds in a way similar to that of the
Scottish apes
E) experienced a sudden change in how they
pronounced words

14

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English

50. One can understand from the passage that unlike
what is commonly accepted, ----.
A) chimp words for objects do not vary
B) chimps can consciously change the sounds they
produce
C) chimp call structure includes involuntary outbursts
D) chimps are not able to produce sounds that have
meanings
E) chimp words for objects are linked to emotional
outbursts

15

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English
51-54: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

52. What is the main reason why Manby's invention in
1818 was more efficient?

George Manby is most famous for his invention of the
Manby Mortar – a device once used to rescue a lot of
people from shipwrecks. He is also known as the father
of the modern fire extinguisher, which in itself has also
saved thousands of lives. Fire extinguishers actually
predate Manby's invention. One of the earliest ones was
designed in 1723 by Ambrose Godfrey. Godfrey's device
consisted of a fire-extinguishing liquid and a chamber of
gunpowder. When the attached fuses were lit, the
gunpowder exploded and scattered the liquid. They
were not widely used, although there is an account of
them being used in a fire in London in 1729. Manby's
1818 invention was more efficient. He was inspired to
invent a portable fire extinguisher after witnessing
firemen's inability to fight fires on the top floors of
buildings because they were difficult to get to. He
designed a device containing potassium carbonate with
the remaining space taken up by compressed air. When
the device was activated, it allowed the air to rush out
and spread the potassium carbonate over quite a range.
The system could also be used with water, and was
portable, allowing firemen to reach otherwise
inaccessible areas. Manby's invention was soon
replaced by a newer model. However, the use of
compressed air formed the premise for new prototypes,
with modern extinguishers using carbon dioxide as the
pressurising agent in a similar way.

A) It could use various pressurising agents to scatter the
extinguishing liquid.
B) It enabled firemen to deal with fires in places that they
had previously been unable to reach.
C) It proved its convenience when it helped to extinguish
a fire in London in 1729.
D) It contained potassium carbonate which could spread
over a large area.
E) It could save more lives than Godfrey's invention could
do.

53. One can understand from the passage that Manby's
fire extinguisher ----.
A) was designed with the help of the firemen who wanted
to reach inaccessible areas
B) was not used as widely as Godfrey's device when it
was first introduced
C) was very similar to his another invention called the
Manby Mortar
D) was appropriate for the use of several pressurising
agents to spread the potassium carbonate

51. It is clear from the passage that Manby ----.

E) took more time to activate when compared to
Godfrey's device

A) was inspired by different types of fire extinguishers
while producing his own type
B) became famous when he himself rescued a lot of
people from a shipwreck
C) is regarded as the creator of the fire extinguisher
although similar types existed before
D) was the first person to use a fire extinguisher in a fire
in London in 1729
E) collaborated with Godfrey to invent the fire
extinguisher

16

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English

54. What is the primary purpose of the author?
A) To give examples of the pressurising agents used in
fire extinguishers
B) To make a comparison between Manby's fire
extinguisher and Godfrey's device
C) To inform the reader about the development of the fire
extinguisher
D) To put emphasis on portable fire extinguishers that
help firemen to reach inaccessible areas
E) To describe the benefits and limitations of Manby's fire
extinguisher

17

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English
55-58: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

56. A control group is a group in an experiment where the
factor being tested is not applied so that it can be
compared against another group where the factor is
applied.

It might sound like something from a modern-day
vampire movie, but transfer of youthful blood can have a
reviving effect on the mind, researchers have found. Or
at least, it can in mice: a study by Stanford University
School of Medicine has discovered that something in
the blood of young mice has the ability to restore mental
capabilities in older mice. Over the course of three
weeks, the scientists gave 18-month-old mice eight
infusions of plasma taken from animals that were just
three months old, and then put them through a set of
experiments to test their spatial memory – memory
relating to the position of things and how large or small
they are. The mice were seen to perform consistently
better in the tests after receiving the young blood. Old
mice injected with the blood of other old mice, on the
other hand, showed no improvement in the tests. The
team found that new connections were also formed in
the old mice's hippocampi, which again were not seen
in the control group. The hippocampus is a brain
region that plays a huge role in memory, particularly in
recognising and recalling spatial patterns. It is very
sensitive to ageing, showing a natural decline in function
as people grow older. In conditions such as Alzheimer's
disease, this deterioration is accelerated, leading to an
inability to form new memories. It is as yet unclear
whether transferring young blood into older individuals
would have the same effect in humans.

According to this definition, which of the following
is referred to with the expression 'the control
group' that is underlined in the passage?
A) The old mice injected with the blood of young mice
B) The old mice injected with the blood of other old mice
C) The old mice with more sophisticated hippocampi
D) The young mice with less sophisticated hippocampi
E) The young mice injected with the blood of old mice

57. It is understood from the passage that the
hippocampus ----.
A) weakens more quickly in mice than in humans
B) will perform much better in old people if they receive
blood from young ones

55. It is clearly stated in the passage that transfer of
blood from young mice into old mice ----.

C) provides help in remembering the place and size
of things

A) has helped old mice boost their performance in
spatial-memory tests

D) gets better at remembering as one gets older and his
or her spatial awareness develops

B) was performed with the blood especially obtained from
18-month-old mice

E) stops functioning when someone develops such
conditions as Alzheimer's disease

C) has hardly made a difference in old mice in making
connections in their hippocampi
D) improves their memories and it is evidently going to
have the same effect on humans
E) is one of many similar studies carried out by the
Stanford University School of Medicine

18

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English

58. Which could be the best title for this passage?
A) How to Take Care of Your Hippocampus
B) The Important Role of the Hippocampus
C) How Mice's Spatial Memory Functions
D) Looking to Mice for Better Memories
E) Saying Goodbye to Mental Disorders

19

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English
59-62: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

60. Which of the following was declared by the US
National Geographic Society in 1989?

For many years praise was awarded to the US explorer
Robert Peary, who claimed to have reached the North
Pole on 6 April 1909. Yet even at the time his claim was
disputed. Dr Frederick Cook, a rival American explorer,
insisted he had reached the pole almost a year earlier.
But neither of them could provide definitive proof of their
supposed triumph. Cook's own evidence was rejected
by an independent commission, while Peary refused to
hand over any details at all. In 1989, the US National
Geographic Society announced that an analysis of
photographs taken by Peary, together with his records
of ocean depths and other data, were consistent with his
expedition getting within eight kilometres of the true
pole. Cook's claim, meanwhile, has always been
followed by suspicions of fraud. In the years that
followed, the North Pole was reached many times by
airborne and submarine expeditions. Surprisingly, the
first undisputed expedition to reach the North Pole over
the surface did not achieve its goal until 1968, when the
American Ralph Plaisted and three companions arrived
on snowmobiles. On 6 April the following year, the
British explorer Wally Herbert became the first to reach
the North Pole the traditional way, on foot.

A) Dr Cook's expedition was proven to have taken place
a year before Peary's journey.
B) Peary’s photographs and records were as
controversial and unconvincing as those of Dr Cook.
C) Dr Cook’s claim was suspicious since he did not
reveal clear evidence relating to his travel to the North
Pole.
D) The North Pole was discovered several times by
airborne and submarine expeditions before Peary’s
and Dr Cook's expeditions.
E) The information collected by Peary could describe the
real characteristics of the North Pole.

61. Why did the arrival of Ralph Plaisted and his
companions at the North Pole in 1968 cause
surprise?

59. It is stated in the passage that Robert Peary ----.

A) They succeeded in arriving at the North Pole using
snowmobiles.

A) was worried that people would learn he was not the
the first explorer to reach the North Pole

B) No one was expecting that a group of people could
walk as far as the North Pole.

B) had been accepted for years as the first person to
reach the North Pole although he did not offer
conclusive evidence about his expedition

C) At that time, their expedition was the only one that was
recognised to be true.

C) did not want to present the details of his expedition to
the independent commission after he learned that Dr
Cook was rejected

D) Herbert was claimed to have arrived at the North Pole
before them on foot.

D) requested the US National Geographic Society to
analyse the photographs and data he gathered during
his expedition to prove his claim

E) They provided more accurate data than earlier
airborne and submarine expeditions did.

E) was not viewed as the first person to reach the North
Pole since Dr Cook was thought to have arrived there
earlier

20

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English

62. Which of the following can be concluded from the
passage?
A) All of the expeditions to the North Pole were
questioned until Herbert reached the pole on foot.
B) Even though Peary has been accepted as the first
explorer to reach the North Pole, it was actually Dr
Cook who attained the goal.
C) The adventurers were strongly supported by the US
National Geographic Society during their trip to the
North Pole.
D) Reaching the North Pole has been an objective to be
achieved for adventurers, which brings reputation to
them.
E) April is the best time for embarking on an expedition to
the North Pole, as both Peary and Herbert did.

21

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English

63-67: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the dialogue.

64. Reporter:
 Antibiotic resistance is on the rise, and we are
potentially facing a time when standard antibiotics
simply won't work anymore. Why is antibiotic
resistance becoming more widespread?

63. Christopher:
 I like the idea of Formula E, which is a new racing
championship for single-seater cars powered only
by electricity.

Chemist:
 One reason could be that a type of bacteria has
developed molecular mechanisms that actually
make an antibiotic drug ineffective.

Albert:
 ----

Reporter:
 Why is the increase in bacterial resistance
considered a threatening issue?

Christopher:
 Well, it is a platform for research to improve
electric powerstations and charging systems
to make electric cars more feasible and hopefully
more popular.

Chemist:
 ----

Albert:
 I see, this seems to be a good way to encourage
the use of energy-efficient and sustainable
transportation.

Reporter:
 This sounds horrible!
A) The misuse of antibiotics has certainly contributed to
the resistance phenomena. A lot of antibiotics are
used in farming, which is practised without complete
control.

A) Why do we need this when there are other races such
as Formula 1?
B) What kind of power do Formula E race cars use?

B) We should prevent them from producing toxins that
lead to illness rather than kill them. That kind of
intervention can reduce the chances that the bacteria
will develop resistance.

C) How do they plan to attract sponsors for such an
event?

C) Whenever any pressure is put on bacteria, it will
resist. If such pressure is not created, there will be no
evolutionary pressure for the bacteria to develop
resistance.

D) Where do they plan to have these races?
E) How frequently will the Formula E races be held?

D) If new drugs are not developed against these resistant
bacteria, by the year 2050, death from antimicrobial
resistant bacteria could actually even surpass death
from cancer.
E) I'm encouraged by the fact that there are more than
200 different bacteria species that live in our guts,
and the majority of them are actually beneficial to us.

22

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English

65. Daisy:
 I want to take up gardening as a hobby and grow
vegetables, but I don't have a garden to plant them
in.

66. Defne:
 I read that remembering the past in a positive way
could make us happy in times of crisis.
Beren:
 ----

Caroline:
 ----

Defne:
 Can you give me an example?

Daisy:
 But they may not grow successfully if they don't
get a sufficient amount of sunlight.

Beren:
 During a divorce, I'm not sure that it's helpful for a
person to focus on all the good times in the
marriage. They're likely to experience an even
greater sense of loss.

Caroline:
 You can grow some vegetables without any sun at
all. For example, lettuce and parsley will grow
beautifully under artificial light.

A) Actually, when I'm in a bad mood, I find it more
beneficial to think about a prosperous future rather
than the better past.

A) It's not only the space you should take into account,
but sunlight is also important when growing
vegetables.
B) Vegetables need to be watered very frequently, and
they tend to grow more nicely in sunny areas.

B) Most people believe that looking at old photos
showing the good times in the past has a positive
influence on mood.

C) Have you ever heard about indoor gardening? You
can use your attic, basement, or balcony to grow
vegetables.

C) I don't agree. Recalling better times when a person is
depressed will worsen their problems rather than solve
them.

D) Near a bright window that takes sunlight at high
intensity, you can grow cherry tomatoes and
cucumbers.

D) I don't think so. Instead of being nostalgic to feel
happy, I generally try to find possible ways to
overcome my crisis.

E) I suggest you install a greenhouse. Greenhouses
are the most convenient places to grow vegetables,
and they vary vastly in size and price.

E) In such situations, seeking professional help or
receiving support from close friends may bring a deep
relief.

23

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English

68-71: For these questions, choose the best
rephrased form of the given sentence.

67. Edward:
 What do you think the difference between the
words 'inequality' and 'disparity' is?

68. Exercise both strengthens our muscles and
encourages the production of special chemicals
called endorphins, which make us feel good and act
to reduce pain.

William:
 Well, both have negative connotations. And they
both imply a lack of something. I guess they
are basically synonyms.
Edward:
 ----

A) In addition to having stronger muscles through
exercising, we are in a better mood and feel less pain
thanks to special chemicals, endorphins, that it
activates.

William:
 Oh, I see. So, if I say that there is a disparity
between you and me, it might not be a bad thing,
but inequality would be negative.

B) In order for our body to generate more endorphins
– the special chemicals that make us happier and
reduce pain – and to strengthen our muscles, we
should exercise.

A) That's sort of correct, but we use 'disparity' when we
talk about scientific topics and 'inequality' for social
issues.

C) Making our muscles stronger with exercise produces
special chemicals, such as endorphins, in the body
and makes us feel good by relieving pain.

B) That's basically correct, though 'disparity' tells us that
something is unfair, while 'inequality' means some
groups have more advantages than others.

D) The production of important chemicals like endorphins
not only strengthens our muscles but also encourages
us to do exercise to feel better and feel less pain.

C) They're more or less the same, but in academic
circles, the term 'disparity' is an out-of-date
expression; the current term is 'inequality'.

E) Endorphins, special chemicals which are produced
while exercising, strengthen our muscles as well as
making us happier by reducing pain.

D) They're essentially synonymous, but we can use
'inequality' to express minor differences and 'disparity'
for significant levels of difference.
E) You're right, they're very similar, but 'disparity' can be
used to talk about differences neutrally, while
'inequality' suggests a value judgement.

24

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English

69. Chameleons cannot generate their own body heat
so when they want to warm themselves, their colour
will darken to absorb more heat from the sun.

70. Rome expanded from a small Italian city-state to a
world power not just by conquering other societies
but also by assimilating them.

A) Once their colours darken, chameleons can get more
heat from the sun, but to warm themselves much
better, they have to produce their own body heat.

A) Rome, which was initially a small Italian city-state,
evolved into a world power by both assimilating and
conquering other societies.

B) When chameleons transform themselves into a dark
colour, they take in more heat from the sun and warm
themselves easily, which helps them control their own
body heat.

B) Rome could not have developed into a world power
from a small Italian city-state if it had not been able to
conquer other societies and assimilate them.
C) What led Rome to emerge as a world power was the
assimilation of various societies it conquered,
otherwise it would have remained as a small Italian
city-state.

C) Chameleons can warm themselves with the heat from
the sun thanks to the dark colours they change into,
and that is why they do not need to generate their own
body heat.

D) The reason why Rome turned into a world power from
a small Italian city-state is that it placed a higher
priority on the assimilation of other societies than
on their conquest.

D) Because chameleons are not capable of providing
their own body heat, their colour gets darker so that
more heat is received from the sun, and they can
warm themselves.

E) Rome, which was a small Italian city-state at the very
beginning, conquered and assimilated other societies
that had been struggling to become a world power.

E) Chameleons’ body heat is linked to dark colours
because when they are darker, more heat from the
sun can be absorbed, otherwise they cannot warm
themselves.

25

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English
72-75: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the missing part of the
passage.

71. English is a mother tongue for many people in the
world, who are increasingly outnumbered by those
who learn English as a foreign language.

72. Almost all of us experience prejudice in one form or
another. People make assumptions about us on the
basis of our age, ethnicity, race or sex, and we often
find ourselves automatically making the same sorts
of assumptions about others. Herein lies a paradox:
prejudice is socially undesirable; however, it is
widespread in society. ---- For example, the system
of apartheid in South Africa, where black people
were forced to live away from white people, was a
classic case of such prejudice, as it was defended
publicly as being recognition of and respect for
cultural differences.

A) English, either the mother tongue or foreign language
of many people, is being spoken in almost every part
of the world.
B) Although English is being learnt as a foreign language
more widely than ever, there are also a large amount
of people whose first language is English.
C) Lots of people around the world are native speakers of
English; however, the number of learners of English as
a foreign language has far surpassed the number of
its native speakers.
D) Throughout the world, there is a significant gap
between people who speak English as their first
language and those who learn it as a foreign
language.

A) No matter what the majority thinks, the government
has to make sure that all citizens are safe regardless
of their background.
B) If public awareness is raised, prejudice may not trigger
serious problems in multicultural societies.

E) In the past, the number of English native speakers
was greater than those who had been learning English
as a foreign language, but now it is not the case.

C) Once the influence of certain ideologies becomes
commonplace throughout the world, it is not easy
to eradicate the core beliefs.
D) Even in societies where prejudice is institutionalised,
sophisticated justifications are often used to excuse
or deny its presence.
E) Only when the necessary precautions are taken, can
people feel secure, respected and equal in society.

26

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English

73. When someone we regard as a cherished friend
suddenly is not there for us, it can feel like a hurtful
betrayal. But before accusing or condemning them,
you might want to ask yourself such questions as
"Have they disappointed me before?", "Are my
expectations too high?", "Have I always behaved
perfectly towards them?". ---- Since we are all
fallible and could potentially disappoint our friends,
it is good to remember that there are two sides to
every story.

74. The origins of the 35 mm camera lie in the
increasing availability of motion picture film stock
during the early years of the 20th century. The 35 mm
format was first used in Edison’s Kinetoscope, a
moving picture viewing device patented in 1891, and
was later adopted as the standard film gauge by
cinema-makers after 1896. ---- However, as the
quality of the film improved, the potential virtues of
small size and convenience of handling began to
appeal to still camera designers.

A) Exploring these issues honestly will allow you to
accept your share of responsibility.

A) Three Spanish inventors took out a British patent for a
still camera using 35 mm format as early as 1908.

B) It is common in these situations to start wondering if
the person was ever a 'real' friend.

B) Unsurprisingly perhaps, the 35 mm camera gained
enormous popularity across the world.

C) Particularly with social media, many bestow the status
of friend on others with surprising speed and ease.

C) Sales of the cameras were limited by the outbreak of
World War I in 1914.

D) An enduring friendship is based on a similar life
experience, and a shared value system.

D) The earliest 35 mm film was very slow and not ideal
for still camera work.

E) One reason for ending the friendship or distancing
yourself from it is growing apart in terms of interests.

E) The first 35 mm camera sold to the public was
probably an American model developed in 1913.

27

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English

76-80: For these questions, choose the irrelevant
sentence in the passage.

75. Children who do not master basic reading skills at
an early age, specifically the ability to automatically
decode new words and build vocabulary that leads
to fluency, experience academic failure. ---- In other
words, the curriculum focuses much less on
teaching students to acquire the basic tools of
literacy, and much more on using those tools to
learn content, express ideas, and solve problems. At
this point, students are likely to be given content
textbooks in science and social studies and to read
non-fiction for the purpose of gaining new
information.

76. (I) As evidence has mounted about the threats that the
Earth is facing, from rising temperatures and ocean
acidification to deforestation and extreme weather,
NASA has given priority to missions aimed at coping
with the impacts. (II) NASA will be devising new
technology to monitor earthquake-prone regions on the
Earth via the satellites. (III) One of its newest satellites, a
$916 million observatory called SMAP (for Soil Moisture
Active Passive) was launched in January 2015. (IV) It
was designed to measure soil moisture both by
bouncing a radar beam off the surface and by recording
radiation emitted by the soil itself. (V) In July 2015, the
active radar stopped transmitting, but the passive
radiometer is still doing its job, and its maps will help
scientists forecast droughts, floods, and famines.

A) The readiness of children to read, in particular, has
recently gained greater attention from educators.
B) Family environment is as important as the school
environment in children’s development.
C) By the third grade, learning to read has become
reading to learn.

A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V

D) Children with good phonological awareness skills
usually learn to read quickly.
E) They also need to learn book-handling skills such as
orienting a book correctly.
77. (I) During the Renaissance, Italy was not a single,
unified country. (II) It consisted of a patchwork of small
states, each with its own history, government, and
traditions. (III) Artistic styles varied significantly from
region to region. (IV) The writings of Vasari, a painter
and architect from Florence, helped establish the idea
that Renaissance art originated in Italy. (V) Although
Florence, Rome, and Venice were the main centres of
artistic activity, skilled artists produced significant works
in other areas as well.
A) I

28

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Spring/English

78. (I) When we listen to music, electrical waves in our
brains synchronise to the tempo, but some people's
brains are better at synchronising to the beat. (II) Keith
Doelling at New York University and his team recorded
brainwaves of musicians and non-musicians as they
listened to music. (III) While both groups could
synchronise their brain waves to the rhythms,
non-musicians struggled to synchronise to particularly
slow music. (IV) Musical training might also help people
with dyslexia – a difficulty with reading and writing
caused by the brain's inability to see the difference
between some letter shapes. (V) Musicians can do
this, not because of their natural talent, but because
they have been trained to mentally subdivide music into
shorter sections.
A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

80. (I) Although iron is the most common metal, it was the
last to be used by people. (II) Humanity made a huge
advance when people learned how to use metals.
(III) Metal tools were easier to shape than stone ones,
and could be mass-produced using molds. (IV) Unlike a
stone axe, which was useless when broken, a copper or
bronze one could be melted down and recycled.
(V) Shiny metals, such as gold and silver, were also
perfect materials for jewellery and coins.
A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V

E) V

79. (I) While urbanisation has been a notable characteristic
of European society for centuries, the trend toward
industralisation and urbanisation has accelerated
phenomenally since World War II. (II) London and Paris,
for example, have been major urban centres for
centuries, but many other European cities have
experienced rapid expansion of their populations only
since the late 1940s. (III) The clustering of substantial
populations into metropolitan regions is a distinctive
demographic feature of Europe. (IV) In countries such as
Italy and Spain, which were largely agricultural and rural
before World War II, we find that many of their cities
have now become home to large numbers of people.
(V) For example, Madrid and Rome experienced
remarkable increases between 1960 and 1990, in
comparison with more moderate increases for most
cities in the former West Germany, France, and the
United Kingdom.
A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V