1-6: For these questions, choose the best word or
expression to fill the space.

4. Children and adolescents with attention deficit or
hyperactivity disorder frequently experience
difficulties in school settings, most ---- in the areas
of academic achievement and interpersonal
relationships.

1. Some ethnic minority groups of students within the
US, such as African Americans and Hispanic
Americans, achieve below the national average of all
students; however, one ---- is the high educational
achievements demonstrated by Asian American
students.
A) aspiration
B) defect
C) exception
D) influence

A) appropriately

B) urgently

C) subtly

D) compulsorily
E) notably

E) complaint

5. Children who grow up in two-parent homes where
the parents are non-traditional in their own gender
roles ---- less gender-stereotypic behaviour than do
children whose parents are traditional in their role
enactment.

2. Without artificial fertilisers and pesticides, there
would not be enough food grown on Earth to satisfy
our needs, even with equal ---- of agricultural output.
A) recognition

B) deterioration

C) distribution

D) fluctuation

A) display

B) alter

D) reject

C) achieve
E) eradicate

E) reduction

6. When Columbus sailed west from Spain in 1492 in
pursuit of the riches of the Far East, he ---- recent
advances in navigation and age-old geographical
knowledge.

3. An important reason to re-evaluate how we are
raising the next generation grows out of an
incredibly exciting discovery about brain
development: during adolescence, the brain’s
potential to change through experience is ----.
A) tremendous

B) frustrating

C) debatable

D) redundant

A) kept off

B) drew on

C) put forward

D) gave away
E) brought about

E) exhausted

1

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Fall/English

7-16: For these questions, choose the best
word(s) or expression(s) to fill the space(s).

9. Tomatoes are so widely consumed that they
represent a vehicle ---- beneficial nutrients to those
who ---- expensive seasonal berries.
A) having introduced / would not afford

7. In 1517, the Italian physician Girolamo Fracastoro
was probably the first person ---- that fossils are
animal remains; however, it was not until the
18th century that scientists ---- to realise that fossils
can tell us a great deal about the history of living
things.

B) introducing / could not afford
C) to have introduced / may not afford
D) to introduce / cannot afford

A) suggesting / had begun

E) being introduced / might not afford

B) being suggested / were beginning
C) to have suggested / have begun
D) to suggest / began
E) having suggested / were going to begin

10. Early mastery of fire offered many benefits to
humankind, including protection ---- wild animals,
heat that enabled them to spread ---- cooler regions,
and the ability to cook food.

8. The technological advancements that once made
nations prosperous, such as the internal
combustion engine, ---- to shatter empires during
the First World War, on a scale few people ---- before
the outbreak of the war.

A) against / into

B) from / by

C) to / over

D) for / along
E) on / towards

A) had been used / should have imagined
B) should have been used / used to imagine
11. Anschluss, the political union of Germany and
Austria, was specifically prohibited ---- the Versailles
Treaty, but was carried out by Hitler in March 1938
---- any resistance from the victors of the First World
War.

C) would have been used / might have imagined
D) were used / could have imagined
E) must have been used / can imagine

A) across / through

B) under / without

C) for / on

D) from / behind
E) to / about

2

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Fall/English

12. Home-grown produce tastes better than grocery
store produce ---- it is freshly picked and perfectly
ripe, which shines through even when cooked or
preserved.
A) although

B) whereas

D) because

16. 19th-century scientists fell into a bitter debate as to
---- intelligence lay in anatomy ---- a vital force was
responsible for thoughts.
A) as / as
B) neither / nor

C) whether

C) so / that

E) unless

D) whether / or
E) not only / but also

13. ---- there have been dozens of proposals for
gender-neutral third-person pronouns in English
over the past two centuries, none has gained
acceptance.
A) Now that

B) As long as

C) In case

D) Once
E) Even though

14. The story of the cat’s domestication is one of mutual
appreciation: early farming communities benefited
from cats’ rodent-catching skills ---- cats won
themselves protection and shelter without losing
their independence.
A) even if

B) only when

C) as soon as

D) while
E) before

15. In most cultures around the world, men and women
typically differ in a number of ways ---- physical
appearance, personality traits, and occupational
preferences.
A) in case of

B) in spite of

D) similar to

C) such as
E) as well as

3

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Fall/English
17-21: For these questions, choose the best
word or expression to fill the spaces in the
passage.

19.

In the 1960s, people had greater employment
opportunities and a new buying power. (17)---- this
growing affluence, music and fashion became
mass-market industries and were quick to cater to the
demands of the youth market. The growing popularity of
television helped to spread popular culture throughout
the world, (18)---- new trends could develop rapidly.
Programmes such as Top of the Pops in the UK and
The Ed Sullivan Show in the US could lead people
(19)---- considerable attention to pop music. In 1962,
the Beatles emerged from Liverpool's Cavern Club.
Their first album Please Please Me became very
famous (20)---- the globe within a year. They grew
(21)---- popular, sparking such intense devotion in their
fans that it became known as 'Beatlemania'.

A) to be paid

B) having paid

C) to have paid

D) to pay
E) being paid

A

B

D

E

20.
A) from

B) around

C) toward

D) into

E) about

17.
A) Instead of

B) Rather than

C) As a result of

D) Contrary to
E) Regardless of

21.
A) slightly

B) coincidentally

C) steadily

D) equally
E) immensely

18.
A) though
D) just as

B) otherwise

C) instead
E) so

4

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Fall/English
22-26: For these questions, choose the best
word or expression to fill the spaces in the
passage.

24.
A) would have complained

Since ancient times, architecture has been considered
the ‘mother’ of the arts. (22)---- music, painting, and
sculpture that exist in a way separate from life,
architecture incorporates life. People and their activities
are an (23)---- component of architecture, not merely as
spectators to be entertained but as contributors and
participants. Painters, sculptors, and composers of
music (24)---- about how their viewers or audience never
see or hear their art in quite the same way as it was
conceived, or that is interpreted or displayed in ways
that affect its innate character. However, they have
control (25)---- the essence of their work and that
essence is, in a way, tightly sealed within the object: the
musical score, the covers of a book or the picture frame.
(26)----, even the essence of architecture is realised by
the people whose activities it influences.

B) may complain
C) should complain
D) must have complained
E) used to complain

25.

22.
A) As well as

B) By means of

C) As opposed to

D) In terms of

A) about

B) over
D) from

C) against
E) with

E) Because of

26.
23.
A) impoverished

B) immeasurable

C) unreasonable

D) indispensable

A) Otherwise

B) Unfortunately

C) For instance

D) Therefore
E) On the contrary

E) unintentional

5

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Fall/English

27-36: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the given sentence.

29. While scientists are pretty certain that black holes
exist, ----.
A) they have never observed one directly, let alone
gotten in near proximity of one

27. ---- until they are considered ready to switch to
English.

B) they are defined as areas in space from which nothing
can escape

A) Around 2.6 million school-aged children throughout the
US do not speak English at all

C) it has been long known that the gravity there is
intensely strong

B) It is difficult for bilingual teachers to help their students
improve their native language skills in some subjects

D) they can be produced in supernova explosions,
marking the death of a star

C) In transitional bilingual education, students are taught
academic subjects in their native languages

E) they use quantum rules to show that black holes must
evaporate

D) The language rights of ethnic minorities in the US
have been a source of public controversy for decades
E) Most people who are opposed to bilingualism are part
of the English-only movement

30. Even though parchment was more difficult to
produce and more expensive than papyrus, ----.
A) the king of Egypt stopped exporting papyrus to
Pergamum, fearing that Pergamum's great library
might overshadow that of Alexandria

28. Though China began as a small empire centred on
the Great Bend of the Yellow River, ----.
A) almost all of what we know about its culture comes
from the wealthy classes

B) the finest parchments, especially those made from the
skins of very young animals, were called 'vellum'

B) the emperor of China, believed to have descended
from the gods, was at the top of society

C) parchment was made from the skins of sheep and
goats while papyrus was made from the stems of the
papyrus plant

C) it was with the Shang dynasty that people began to
keep written records of Chinese history

D) it was Europe's favoured writing material until the
14th-century advances in paper making

D) kings of local areas gained more power and
sometimes fought among themselves

E) among the most famous medieval manuscripts written
on parchment is the stunning Très Riches Heures of
the Duc de Berry

E) it expanded considerably over time to become quite
a vast kingdom

6

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Fall/English

31. Although the science of geology as we know it today
is a relatively young field, ----.

33. ----, we regularly leave digital traces of our economic
standing when expressing ourselves through posts
on social media.

A) it basically refers to the scientific study of rocks and
soil

A) In order that people can stay away from the negative
effects of the Internet

B) it is a vast field, stretching from palaeontology to
mineralogy

B) Unless we talk about business, politics and non-profit
work with others

C) insightful observations of the Earth's processes dates
back to the ancient Greeks

C) No matter we reveal our own personal information
online

D) many geologists think there are some truths that work
most of the time

D) Although money is a topic that most of us avoid
discussing publicly

E) many of the processes attached to geology cannot be
used for measurement in all situations

E) Since more than half of the Internet users stay away
from using social media actively

32. Preventing children's academic failure means
developing individuals who are able to contribute to
the common good; ----.

34. Early humans had no explanation for the existence
of a vast array of substances and their
transformations, ----.

A) yet, some types of academic failure prevention call for
an increased emphasis on arithmetic skills

A) so they could only attribute chemical phenomena to
the acts of the gods

B) nevertheless, causes of academic failure include
socioeconomic and cultural issues

B) but the first step to modern chemistry was the
recognition of the fact that atoms existed

C) accordingly, academic failure has recently come to
mean a failure to acquire basic literacy skills

C) as they were able to observe various materials on
Earth and predict their future forms

D) on the contrary, a positive family environment is very
important in preventing academic failure

D) because chemical researchers identified the building
blocks of matter in modern times

E) thus, the prevention of academic failure should be a
primary concern for any society

E) for they could interpret chemical changes between
substances in a small amount of time

7

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Fall/English
37-42: For these questions, choose the most
accurate Turkish translation of the sentences in
English, and the most accurate English translation
of the sentences in Turkish.

35. ----, the illness can present itself at any stage of life.
A) As cultural pressures foster both unhealthy dieting and
anorexia

37. New Zealand, separated from other land masses,
has unique plant and animal species, which are
vulnerable to the impacts of non-native species.

B) Even though anorexia is often claimed to overlap with
clinical depression
C) While there is certainly a prevalence of anorexia in
teenagers

A) Eşsiz bitki ve hayvan türlerinin bulunduğu Yeni
Zelanda diğer kara parçalarından ayrıdır, dolayısıyla
bu türler yabancı türlerin etkilerine karşı
savunmasızdır.

D) If a lack of serotonin has a causal effect on the
existence of anorexia

B) Yeni Zelanda’nın diğer kara parçalarından ayrı olması,
eşsiz bitki ve hayvan türlerini yabancı türlerin etkilerine
karşı savunmasız hâle getirmiştir.

E) Despite the common belief that anorexia is the result
of an abnormality in the brain

C) Yeni Zelanda diğer kara parçalarından ayrılmış olsa
da yabancı türlerin etkilerine karşı savunmasız hâlde
bulunan eşsiz bitki ve hayvan türlerine sahiptir.
D) Diğer kara parçalarından ayrı olan Yeni Zelanda,
yabancı türlerin etkilerine karşı savunmasız hâlde
bulunan eşsiz bitki ve hayvan türlerine sahiptir.

36. World Space Week takes place every year in
October, ----.

E) Yeni Zelanda diğer kara parçalarından ayrı olduğu için
burada bulunan eşsiz bitki ve hayvan türleri, yabancı
türlerin etkilerine karşı savunmasızdır.

A) so World Space Week 2016 has been, by far, the
largest space celebration in history
B) because you do not have to be an astronaut to be part
of the global celebration of World Space Week
C) and it has grown into the largest public space event on
Earth since its declaration by the United Nations

38. Believing that sports could be used to promote
peace between countries, the French aristocrat
Pierre de Coubertin organised the first modern
Olympic Games in Athens, in 1896.

D) but it can be a great framework for countries and
agencies to foster space exploration
E) while the Mexican Space Agency has been an
important promoter of World Space Week

A) Fransız aristokrat Pierre de Coubertin, sporun ülkeler
arasındaki barışa önayak olması için
kullanılabileceğine inanarak 1896'da Atina'da ilk
modern Olimpiyat Oyunları'nı düzenledi.
B) 1896'da, sporun ülkeler arasındaki barışa önayak
olması için kullanılabileceği inancıyla ilk modern
Olimpiyat Oyunları'nı düzenleyen kişi Fransız
aristokrat Pierre de Coubertin'dir.
C) Fransız aristokrat Pierre de Coubertin, spor
aracılığıyla ülkeler arasındaki barışa önayak
olunabileceğine inanarak 1896'da Atina'da ilk modern
Olimpiyat Oyunları'nı düzenledi.
D) Fransız aristokrat Pierre de Coubertin, sporun ülkeler
arasındaki barışa önayak olabileceğine inandığı için
1896'da Atina'da ilk modern Olimpiyat Oyunları'nın
düzenlenmesini sağladı.
E) İlk modern Olimpiyat Oyunları'nın 1896'da
düzenlenmesi, Fransız aristokrat Pierre de
Coubertin'in sporun ülkeler arasındaki barışa önayak
olması için kullanılabileceği düşüncesine dayanır.

8

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Fall/English

39. Originally imported from China in the 12th century,
tea has been a significant component of Japanese
culture ever since.
A) 12. yüzyıldan beri Japon kültürünün önemli bir parçası
olan çay, aslında Çin’den getirilmiştir.

41. Newton'ın evrensel yer çekimi kanunu, Güneş
sistemindeki nesnelerin matematiksel olarak tahmin
edilebilir bir dizi kurala göre hareket ettiğini
göstermektedir.
A) It is shown by Newton's law of universal gravitation
that the objects in the solar system move according to
a mathematically predictable set of rules.

B) 12. yüzyılda aslında Çin'den getirilen çay, o zamandan
beri Japon kültürünün önemli bir parçası olmuştur.
C) Japon kültürünün önemli bir parçası olan çay, aslında
12. yüzyıldan beri Çin'den getirilmektedir.

B) Newton’s law of universal gravitation shows that the
objects in the solar system move according to a
mathematically predictable set of rules.

D) Çay aslında 12. yüzyılda Çin'den getirilse de o
zamandan beri Japon kültürünün önemli bir parçası
olmuştur.

C) Newton's law of universal gravitation shows how the
objects in the solar system move according to a
mathematically predictable set of rules.

E) Çay aslında 12. yüzyılda Çin’den getirildiğinden beri
Japon kültürünün önemli bir parçası olmuştur.

D) Thanks to Newton's law of universal gravitation, it is
shown that the objects in the solar system move
according to a mathematically predictable set of rules.
E) Newton's law of universal gravitation shows that the
moves of the objects in the solar system are linked to
a mathematically predictable set of rules.

40. Kutup ayıları iklim değişikliğinin sadece sembolü
değil, aynı zamanda her yaz biraz daha seyrekleşen
doğal yaşam alanlarını terk eden asıl kurbanlarıdır.
A) Polar bears are both the symbol of climate change and
true victims of it, because they have to leave their
habitat which has become sparser every summer.

42. Besin kaynaklarının dağılımı, bolluğu ve
mevsimselliği, insanların göçebe veya yerleşik bir
yaşam sürme tercihini etkilemiştir.

B) Climate change is not only responsible for making
polar bears a symbol but also a victim of it, as they
have to leave their habitat becoming sparser every
summer.

A) The distribution, abundance and seasonality of food
resources affected people's choice to live a nomadic
or settled existence.
B) What affected people's choice to live a nomadic or
settled existence were the distribution, abundance and
seasonality of food resources.

C) Polar bears are known as both the symbol and the
victims of climate change since they have to leave
their habitat every summer as it becomes sparser.

C) People's choice to live a nomadic or settled existence
was affected by the distribution, abundance and
seasonality of food resources.

D) Polar bears are not just the symbol of climate change
but they are also true victims, leaving their habitat
which has become sparser each summer.

D) Food resources, with their distribution, abundance and
seasonality, affected people's choice to live a nomadic
or settled existence.

E) Polar bears have become the symbol of climate
change; however, they are also the victims of it due to
the necessity of leaving their habitat every summer.

E) People's choice to live a nomadic or settled existence
was affected by food resources, based on their
distribution, abundance and seasonality.

9

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Fall/English
43-46: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

44. What is the main function of NIR spectrometers?
A) They enable us to examine the chemical structure of
objects.

Sometimes it feels like the Internet has the answer to
everything. At our fingertips, we have the ability to
improve our knowledge or test someone's doubtful "Did
you know...?" statement. Our online searches have their
limits, though. If we have questions about what is in
front of us, the Internet cannot always help. Is this water
safe to drink? How much fat is really in this steak?
Search engines cannot access these objects, so their
answers are limited to averages and tendencies. To get
real answers, we must tap into the chemical make-up of
our world. The technology to do this exists, but it is
limited to immovable pieces of lab kit called
near-infrared (NIR) spectrometers. NIR spectrometers
work by shining a spectrum of near-infrared light onto
objects and analysing the light that bounces back. Say
you want to scan an apple. Each substance within the
fruit, be it water, sugar, or fibre, will respond to the light
in a unique way. The bonds within them will be
energised, moving around at specific wavelengths. The
spectrometer can detect these wavelengths and
then identify what is inside your particular apple. NIR
light is also perfectly safe to use, unlike more
destructive X-rays or ultraviolet radiation.

B) They help scientists explore the chemistry of objects
through search engines.
C) They reply to questions that cannot be answered
through the Internet.
D) They reveal the amount of substances like water and
sugar in foods.
E) They detect whether objects are destroyed by X-rays
or ultraviolet radiation.

45. What is the drawback of NIR spectrometers?
A) The light they give out can be hazardous.
B) When the substances in an object respond in the
same way, they cannot be distinguished.
C) Their functions are limited to foods.
D) They are restricted to laboratory use.

43. By asking questions such as "Is this water safe to
drink?", what is the author actually trying to say?

E) They cannot accurately analyse the light reflected from
objects.

A) We can expand our knowledge about almost
everything by using the Internet.
B) A great number of questions can be answered thanks
to the Internet.

46. Which could be the best title for this passage?

C) What we can learn through online searches is not
endless.

A) Advantages and Limitations of Search Engines
B) Are NIR Spectrometers Safe to Use?

D) Doubtful statements made by others cannot be
exactly clarified by doing online searches.

C) Can Wavelengths Be Used with Search Engines?

E) We can easily discover averages and tendencies via
search engines.

D) Choosing the Best Food to Eat through Scanning
E) Seeing Inside Things through NIR Spectrometers

10

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Fall/English
47-50: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

48. One can conclude from the passage that the
problems of volunteer recruitment ----.
A) have been solved using a strategy called
'over-recruitment'

2014 was a landmark year for drug development. The
US Food and Drug Administration approved 41 new
pharmaceuticals, the most since 1996. Each of these
will hopefully make the world a better place, alleviating
distress and preventing premature deaths. But
developing drugs is incredibly expensive – and
increasingly so. The cost of bringing a new compound to
the market is now around $2.5 billion, twice as much in
real terms as it was a decade ago. One of the costliest
parts is recruiting and retaining volunteers to test the
drug in a clinical trial. Around three quarters of trials are
delayed by problems with this process. Most trials
over-recruit by up to 50 percent to compensate, but the
drop-out is still so high that only 1 in 20 volunteers end
up generating useful data. The result: wasted time,
effort and money. That is not for lack of patient
willingness. In 2013, the UK's House of Commons found
that people want to volunteer but do not know how. Yet,
volunteers can be brought on board and kept there by
making more effort to inform and help them to choose
which trial they would like to enter. The problems with
volunteer recruitment were identified a decade ago but
have not been eradicated. It is high time they were. It is
in everyone's interest to get rid of this unnecessary
waste.

B) show many differences in each clinical trial
C) are to be solved soon by making up for waste of time
in clinical trials
D) can be reduced by providing people with more
guidance on volunteering
E) have changed a lot in time with respect to their basic
characteristics

49. What is the primary purpose of the author?
A) To highlight the number of the drugs introduced to the
market in 2014
B) To explain reasons why developing drugs has become
too expensive in recent years
C) To elaborate on the role that the US Food and Drug
Administration plays in developing drugs
D) To inform readers about some important problems
confronted in clinical trials of drugs

47. It is understood from the passage that many
participants in clinical trials ----.

E) To emphasise the health benefits that 41 new
pharmaceuticals are expected to yield

A) think that their time and effort will be wasted
B) are recruited again when a clinical trial ultimately fails
C) have to comply with strict regulations in order to take
part in these trials

50. Which could be the best title for this passage?

D) are well informed about the processes and procedures
in these trials

A) The Activities of the US Food and Drug Administration
B) A Variety of Methods of Volunteer Recruitment in Drug
Trials

E) fail to contribute to the production of reliable data on
drugs

C) Time to Take Voluntary Participation in Drug Trials
Seriously
D) The Huge Expense of Drug Development
E) How to Participate in Clinical Trials of Drugs

11

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Fall/English
51-54: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

52. What could be said about the philosophical tradition
of Socrates?
A) His ideas fiercely competed with those of Alcibiades
and Critias.

Socrates was a classical Greek philosopher whose
thoughts had profound influence in his field. Little is
known about his early and middle years, although
according to ancient tradition, he worked as a
stonecutter. The fact that he served as a heavily armed
soldier in the Peloponnesian War indicates that during
the early years of the war, he was roughly middle class,
because men from this social class were required to
provide their own armour. At some time during this
period, Socrates began the mission of moral reform for
which he became famous. He passed his time arguing
about various moral subjects that interested him with his
fellow Athenians and attempting to inspire them to be
virtuous and honourable. Socrates' followers included
not only Plato, but Alcibiades and Critias as well, both of
whom later undermined the Athenian democracy.
Possibly because of such notorious connections,
Socrates was accused of impiety – showing a lack of
respect for God – and corrupting youth. Different
versions of the speech he made to defend himself
against these accusations still exist today. In his
speech, he described himself as a great benefactor to
the city, and claimed that the Athenians would harm
themselves in killing him. In spite of, or perhaps to some
extent because of, his defence, Socrates was convicted,
sentenced to death, and executed.

B) His philosophical arguments were heartily welcomed
by authorities.
C) His main philosophical point of view was to debate the
legitimacy of the Athenian democracy.
D) Authorities thought that his prevailing philosophy was
in line with religious principles.
E) He discussed ethical issues with the Athenians to
foster respectable behaviours.

53. Which of the following can be inferred based on the
speech Socrates made to defend his actions?
A) His defence might have had an adverse effect on his
chances of survival.
B) His defence failed just because he had some ill-famed
supporters who were strongly condemned by the
Athenians.
C) Although he completely refuted accusations in his
defence, he was executed.
D) He made several spontaneous speeches to defend
himself in the court.

51. Which of the following is certainly true about
Socrates?
A) His initiation of moral reform earned him a reputation
in Athenian society.

E) He failed to take appropriate action to reject the
accusations against him.

B) Socrates earned his living by selling his ideas to his
fellow philosophers.
C) Socrates became a soldier because he wanted to gain
a higher social status.

54. Which could be the best title for this passage?

D) Socrates took up stonecutting in his early years and
practised it until his execution.

A) Achievements of the Distinguished Ancient
Philosopher Socrates

E) One can learn minute details of his whole life because
he is a famous philosopher.

B) The Execution of the Leading Greek Philosopher
Socrates
C) Unfounded Accusations Against Socrates
D) A Life Story of Socrates: From Ideas to Execution
E) A Soldier Serving as a Philosopher: Socrates

12

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Fall/English
55-58: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

56. It is clearly understood from the passage that young
people ----.
A) may encounter a lack of self-esteem if they face
criticism from their parents

Body image can be affected by outside influences.
Media sources, such as television, the Internet, and
magazines, often portray people closer to the commonly
accepted ideal body type than the average body image
in order to sell their products and services.
Consequently, people, especially older children and
young adults, are overly influenced by such depictions
of body image. Family life can also affect children's
perception of their body image. Parents who criticise
how their children look, talk, or act, may often have a
negative effect on the development of self-esteem in
their children. Young people may also be affected by the
comments of classmates and peers when it comes to
their body image. Teasing is often a method used by
young people to convey negative comments and hurtful
words. Common characteristics for being teased
include being too small or too large; too smart or too
dumb; too popular or not very popular; and any of a
number of other personal characterisations. Additionally,
young people often try to pressure their peers to
conform to what is currently popular in clothing styles,
language, and other characteristics – all that can
potentially hurt one's perception of their body image.

B) can disregard the influence of parental behaviour on
their perception of body image
C) could get help from their families or peers to improve
their perception of body image
D) tend to follow the latest trends to become much more
popular among their peers
E) are often forced by their peers to follow popular trends,
which either improves or harms their perception of
body image

57. According to the author, teasing ----.
A) might sometimes be performed by media sources to
draw attention to the importance of body image
B) is generally used by people who are not satisfied with
their own body image
C) is used as a way to communicate both positive and
negative comments

55. What could be inferred about the relationship
between the media and body image?

D) is mostly characterised with criticism on wearing
outmoded clothes

A) The body image promoted by the media encourages
people to keep up with the latest trends, thus enriching
their lives.

E) might concern a great variety of issues related with
typical personal features

B) The way the media presents body image can badly
influence how people see their bodies.
C) The media presents an ideal body type in order to
improve people's perceptions of their body image.

58. What is the main idea of the passage?

D) A great majority of people are aware of how the media
affects their perception of body image.

A) Families can improve their children's body image by
criticising them and choosing what is good for them.

E) The ideal body type described by the media is harshly
criticised by families since it has a negative impact on
their children's self-esteem.

B) It is no use ignoring peer pressure if you want to build
a positive perception of body image.
C) Popular ways of behaving and types of clothing may
help young people build a stronger body image.
D) Various familial and societal factors can influence the
perception of body image in young people.
E) Families and society should stop trying to shape
young people's body image through criticism and
teasing.

13

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Fall/English
59-62: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

60. Which of the following is true about De Materia
Medica?
A) It contained information on which plants are more
widely used to make medicines.

Botany, the study of plants, is one of the major fields of
biology, together with zoology and microbiology, and
has been around for a very long time. Aristotle and
Theophrastus, who lived in ancient Greece around the
4th century BC, were both involved in identifying and
describing plants. Theophrastus has been called the
'father of botany' due to his two well-known books on
plants that are still influential. The early study of plants,
however, was not limited to Western cultures. The
Chinese developed the study of botany along lines
similar to the ancient Greeks at about the same time.
In 60 AD, another Greek, Dioscorides, wrote De Materia
Medica, a work that described a thousand medicines, 60
percent of which came from plants. It remained the
guidebook on medicines in the Western world for 1,500
years until the compound microscope was invented in
the late 16th century. During the 17th century, progress
was made in plant experimentation. In the 19th century,
rapid advances were made in the study of plant
diseases after the potato blight that killed potato crops
in Ireland in the 1840s. The study of plants continues
today as botanists try to understand the structure,
behaviour, and cellular activities of plants in order to
develop better crops and create new medicines.

B) It continued to be highly influential even after the
invention of the compound microscope.
C) It contributed much to the invention of the compound
microscope.
D) It was written by Dioscorides as a reaction to the
botanical developments that occurred in China.
E) It was a book for consultation in the Western world for
a very long time.

61. What is the current objective of botany?
A) To study the works of Theophrastus and Dioscorides
for better crops and new medicines
B) To improve products in the agricultural and
pharmaceutical sectors
C) To make people have a better understanding of the
long history of the discipline
D) To prevent certain plants like the potato plant from
catching diseases

59. Why is Theophrastus called the ‘father of botany’?
A) He distinguished botany from zoology and
microbiology as a distinct field.

E) To analyse plants in greater detail by enhancing the
experiments conducted in the 17th century

B) He was more successful than Aristotle in identifying
and describing plants.
C) He was the first person who studied plants.
D) He produced significant works whose effects
last today.

62. What is the passage mainly about?
A) The comparison of the Western and Chinese studies
of botany

E) He worked on plants for long periods of time.

B) The differences between botany and other fields of
biology
C) The contribution of botany to the cultivation of crops
D) The history of the study of botany
E) The medical applications of botany

14

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Fall/English

63-67: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the dialogue.

64. Patient:
 I don’t know if I’ll ever overcome this fear. Can
you tell me again about this new memory therapy
you want to try?

63. Journalist:
 Could you tell us about your research on heroic
Egyptian kings?

Psychologist:
 Well, I’m going to show you a series of pictures of
the thing you’re afraid of at 10-minute intervals.

Anthropologist:
 We found a skeleton that showed extensive battle
trauma. After examining his injuries, we
discovered that he had died due to the injuries he
got while on a horse.

Patient:
 ---Psychologist:
 Time is crucial to disrupting the brain’s ability to
remember your fear. If we increase the time
intervals between the pictures, your brain has
more time to remember, and that’s exactly what
we don’t want.

Journalist:
 ---Anthropologist:
 Previously, the Egyptian kings riding into battle
could only be seen in paintings and were thought
to be just aggressive depictions of the ruling
class. This is the first real evidence that points to
the kings actually joining their armies in battle.

A) Are the lengths of the intervals important?
B) Is there a particular order of pictures?
C) How many times will you show me these pictures?

A) How does this discovery impact our traditional
perceptions of the Egyptian kings?

D) What does memory have to do with my fear?

B) How often did the Egyptian kings fight in battle and get
injured?

E) What happens if my fear doesn’t go away?

C) Why is it significant that all the Egyptian kings were on
horseback in battle?
D) Why did you focus on the injuries the Egyptian kings
had?
E) Do you think that old paintings portray the Egyptian
kings in detail?

15

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Fall/English

65. Ann:
 There's a very interesting article in this magazine
about a scientist, Ella Al-Shamahi, who’s a
palaeontologist and also performs stand-up
comedy about her field.

66. Journalist:
 You always highlight the importance of keeping a
checklist during complex operations. You’ve also
written a book on how to create such checklists.
Why do we need them?

Jane:
 Science and comedy, how does that work?

Surgeon:
 Well, they're memory aids. They can help you
perform well when you're working with many
people on a complex procedure which eventually
will save lives during surgery.

Ann:
 ---Jane:
 I get it now. She's using comedy to increase
interest in her scientific research. Well, she might
be on the right path, maybe comedy is the next
stage in the evolution of how we present science.

Journalist:
 ---Surgeon:
 A checklist was used during surgical procedures
for 8,000 patients in eight hospitals around the
world. In every hospital, major complications were
reduced by 36 percent and the death rate was
lowered by half.

A) I guess she's using palaeontology to add variety to the
topics she's talking about in her performance to be
different from the other stand-up performers.
B) I'm not sure, but I can assume that she might have
really good time management skills to be able to do
research and fulfill other responsibilities as a
palaeontologist.

A) How did you come to the decision that checklists are
really beneficial?
B) How did you manage to create a common checklist to
be used in various complications?

C) Well, when you think about it, we seem to have a
communication problem in science, so she might be
using comedy to get to people with no enthusiasm
about science.

C) How exactly can a checklist be used during a surgical
procedure?
D) How could you spare enough time to write a book on
checklists while working as a surgeon?

D) The rest of the article says it's an incredible therapy for
her as some of the places she researches are quite
dark and it's nice to find the funny side in them.

E) How did you convince your medical staff to start using
a checklist?

E) If she's really good at it, these shows might even make
her famous meaning that she can also continue doing
research in her field if she wants to.

16

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Fall/English

68-71: For these questions, choose the best
rephrased form of the given sentence.

67. Robert:
 Can perfectionism or stress be a reason for
nail-biting?

68. The fierce debate among scientists over whether
intelligence is inherited or acquired later is yet to be
resolved.

Carl:
 This might be true, but I'm not sure one can find
reliable research as to why nail-biting is so
addictive.

A) Scientists have not still agreed upon how much of
intelligence is inherited and how much of it is acquired
after birth.

Robert:
 ----

B) Whether people are innately endowed with intelligence
or they acquire it at a later time has stimulated an
intense debate among scientists.

Carl:
 Anyway, I think it'd be better not to form an
opinion on the causes of nail-biting without
knowing all the details and scientific facts.

C) A hot debate among scientists revolves around the
inheritance of intelligence rather than its acquisition in
the following years.

A) Some experts say childhood nail-biters are less prone
to allergies, presumably because they're exposed to
more germs.

D) The heated debate among scientists over whether
people are born with intelligence or they acquire it
later has not still ended in agreement.

B) The most common treatment of this addiction, which is
also cheap and widely available, is to apply a
bitter-tasting nail polish to the nails.

E) The fact that intelligence can be both inherited and
acquired in later years has been vigorously debated by
scientists.

C) I know some other body-focused repetitive behaviours
like skin-picking and the urge to pull out hair, and
they sometimes coexist with nail-biting.
D) Doctors state that nail-biting does not only lead to
harmful effects in fingers, but also mouth and more
generally the digestive system.
E) We can speculate that it's to do with experiencing high
levels of anxiety and fear, or being too passionate
or impatient about things and events.

69. According to a recent study, there are more overfed
people in the world today than those who do not
have enough food to eat.
A) A new study shows that there is a significant increase
in the number of overfed people worldwide when
compared to those who suffer from a lack of food.
B) A recent study reveals that, across the world, overfed
people now outnumber those who are malnourished.
C) A current study suggests that, in today’s world, the
difference between the number of people who do
not have enough food and that of those who overeat is
slight.
D) The claim that there are as many overfed people as
malnourished people in the world today has been
proven by a recent study.
E) A new study has found that malnourished people are
far greater in number than overfed people in the entire
world today.

17

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Fall/English

70. It is imperative that women start modifying their risk
factors when they are younger in order to reduce the
risk of developing heart disease once they are older.

71. It is already known that flowers display their bright
colours and use their beautiful scents to lure bees;
however, scientists have recently discovered that
they use electric fields as well.

A) If women immediately begin changing their risk factors
when they are still young, they may decrease their risk
of developing heart disease in their old ages.

A) Scientists used to believe that flowers avoided
using electric fields to attract bees despite utilising
their vivid colours and scents, but now they suggest
electric fields are also used.

B) Women are recommended to start changing their risk
factors at young ages rather than old ages, because
this will reduce the risk of developing heart disease.

B) It is common knowledge that bees are attracted by
flowers' bright colours and beautiful scents, but what
draws scientists' attention more these days is the
electric fields that flowers also use.

C) It is extremely important for women to begin changing
their risk factors when they are young because it might
not be easy to decrease the risk of having heart
disease in their old ages.

C) It has long been known that flowers use several
methods to attract bees, such as displaying striking
colours and using their appealing scents, but scientists
now think that flowers use electric fields for the same
purpose.

D) Women should immediately begin changing their risk
factors at a young age so that they can decrease the
risk of having heart disease in their old ages.
E) It is urgent that women begin changing their risk
factors at a young age, otherwise the risk of
developing heart disease among old women cannot be
decreased.

D) In addition to the exploitation of their bright colours
and beautiful scents, flowers make use of electric
fields to attract bees, which has long been known by
scientists.
E) The fact that flowers manifest their brilliant colours and
benefit from their pleasant scents to attract bees has
been known for a while, but what scientists have
recently revealed is their use of electric fields.

18

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Fall/English
72-75: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the missing part of the
passage.

73. St. Valentine's Day is set aside for lovers and for
declarations of love, with these declarations
traditionally sent anonymously. ---- Theories put
forward generally refer the custom back to Roman
times, telling the story of St. Valentine, a Roman
priest who assisted the Christian martyrs during the
persecutions in the time of Claudius II. St. Valentine
was caught and ordered to give up the Christian
faith. He refused to do so and was executed on the
14th February 270 AD. In another telling,
St. Valentine was executed for the cause of love,
after allowing Christian soldiers to marry in spite of
a ban on them imposed by Emperor Claudius
Gothicus.

72. We are terrified of sharks, largely thanks to their
reputation as vicious killers. Shark attacks are rare
but appear to be rising: There were 98 unprovoked
attacks worldwide in 2015, six fatal. There are three
particularly notorious species: tiger sharks, great
whites, and oceanic whitetips. ---- Recently,
scientists have been shedding new light on these
enigmatic creatures that are seemingly vital to the
seas, and not as scary as you might think.
A) Tiger sharks are unlikely to attack divers who keep
them in sight.

A) St. Valentine's Day flourishes in cultures where there
is a free choice of spouse.

B) Novice divers may come face-to-face with the sharks
and see their true nature.

B) As with many traditions of this kind, it is difficult to
determine the real origin of the practice.

C) On the other hand, a lesser known fact is the crucial
role sharks play in ocean ecology.

C) In the past, there was a belief that the first member of
the opposite sex you met on this day would be your
valentine.

D) Tiger sharks in the protected waters of the Bahamas
are relatively harmless, but they rarely stay in one
place for long.

D) Nowadays, St. Valentine's Day is promoted for
commercial interests, by businesses from card
manufacturers to flower merchants.

E) Scientists in Australia say that sharks keep fish
numbers down and stop them degrading sea grass
ecosystems.

E) The Valentine's card as we know it today did not begin
to gain popularity until recent decades.

19

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Fall/English

74. There is some indication that children whose access
to television is restricted are less likely to be
negatively affected by it, even when they do view it.
A study has found that children whose parents
restrict viewing are less likely to be unnecessarily
fearful of the outside world. ---- In other words,
children whose parents severely limit access to
television may actually become more aggressive,
perhaps due to the frustration that results from the
deprivation of privileges.

75. Beautifully coloured birds, acrobatic monkeys, and
noisy insects are just a few of the sights and sounds
in a tropical rainforest – the richest plant and animal
habitat in the world. Rainforests are found near the
Equator where it is wet and warm enough for plants
to grow all year round. Most rainforest trees are
evergreen, and they produce food and shelter for a
vast number of animals. ---- Every year, huge areas
are cut down for timber and to make way for
pastures and crops.

A) It should be noted, however, that there is some
evidence that very extreme levels of restriction will
backfire.

A) Yet, the negative effect of global warming on this rich
fauna can be seen.
B) Therefore, people should try hard to protect the variety
of species living in rainforests.

B) Children with limited access to television are less likely
to believe that what they see on television is real.

C) In other words, the tropical rainforest is home to
various plants and animals.

C) It is possible that the mere presence of parents while
viewing makes children feel happy.

D) However, despite this richness, rainforests have
recently been shrinking.

D) Children who receive parental restriction are better
able to quickly understand the plots of television
programmes.

E) Some trees, on the other hand, are used to provide
shelter for human beings.

E) Much of the research on the effects of television
viewing has focused on children whose parents are
more sophisticated consumers of television.

20

Go on to the next page.

2017-YDS Fall/English

76-80: For these questions, choose the irrelevant
sentence in the passage.

78. (I) In the North American autumn, Arctic air meets
warmer air from the south, creating the perfect
conditions for storms. (II) Wind rages around all of the
Great Lakes at this time of year, but Lake Erie is the
shallowest and contains the least water. (III) The water
of Lake Erie is darkened by mud and sand mixed by the
strong currents. (IV) This means its waves are typically
the biggest as it is more easily influenced by the
wind. (V) As the wind blows, the waves start to build a
beat, rhythmically sloshing back and forth along the
lake’s roughly east-west axis, and growing in height as
they do.

76. (I) Images of distant and unknown places have inspired
explorers and public for a very long time. (II) The
photographs of Yellowstone were the reason why it was
selected as America's first national park in 1872.
(III) Photographer William Henry Jackson captured the
public's imagination and support by confirming the
existence of western landmarks in the park. (IV) Half a
century later photographer Ansel Adams began his long
career of delighting the public with his pictures of parks
that many people would never visit. (V) These landmarks
which were previously regarded as glorified myths made
it easier to attract attention.
A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

C) III

D) IV

E) V

E) V

79. (I) During impression formation, we tend to pay special
attention to negative or potentially threatening
information. (II) When we come to form an overall
impression of the person, that negative information is
weighed more heavily. (III) That is, a negative trait
affects an impression more than a positive trait,
everything else being equal. (IV) For example, in one
study, students rated 97 percent of their professors in
college favorably despite all the mixed experiences
they have had in their college classes. (V) The main
explanation for this fact is that negative traits are more
unusual and therefore more distinctive.

77. (I) Groups perform many tasks, of which making
decisions is one of the most important. (II) The course of
our lives is largely determined by decisions made by
groups: for example, selection committees, juries,
parliaments and groups of friends. (III) In addition, many
of us spend a significant portion of our working lives
making decisions in groups. (IV) Therefore, social
psychologists have long been interested in the social
processes involved in group decision-making, and in
whether groups make better or different decisions than
individuals do. (V) Another important dimension of group
decision-making is the ability to recall information.
A) I

B) II

A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V

E) V

80. (I) The symptoms of senile dementia generally include a
decline in memory, learning, attention, and judgement,
as well as disorientation and increased difficulties in
communication. (II) Alzheimer’s disease is the most
common cause of senile dementia, accounting for
around 70 percent of all cases. (III) Alzheimer’s disease
often makes it more difficult to think of the right word, for
example. (IV) Behavioural manifestations of Alzheimer’s
disease include a decline in personal hygiene,
inappropriate social behaviour, and apparent changes in
personality. (V) Wandering and forgetting what one is
doing can also become a serious problem, as this can
create a genuine danger.
A) I

21

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V