1-6: For these questions, choose the best word or
expression to fill the space.

4. Architectural analysis is not only a ---- academic
pursuit, done for its own sake, but it can be
informative and entertaining as well.

1. Gender studies is a multifaceted field of inquiry into
social structures and social relations that has
important ---- for the study of violence, peace and
conflict.
A) challenges

B) divisions

C) implications

D) drawbacks

A) mutually

B) convincingly

C) drastically

D) purely
E) deniably

E) requirements

5. Childcare is a broad term that ---- services which
protect the health, safety, and well-being of children
who require custodial care by adults other than their
own parents for a temporary period of time.
2. Nano-tech products can potentially save lives as
well as give us hundreds of new conveniences from
enhanced drug delivery and disease ---- to fabric
that will not stain.
A) progression

B) manipulation

C) detection

D) transmission

A) hinders

B) encompasses

C) creates

D) eliminates
E) suspends

E) inheritance

6. Taking a break, and distracting your mind for a
while, not only gives you the spare time to be
creative, but it can also give your brain the space it
needs to ---- creative solutions to problems you
have been struggling with.

3. The thin, invisible layer of gas surrounding the
Earth, which is called the atmosphere, shields us
from the vacuum of space and protects us from ---solar radiation.
A) delicate

B) excessive

C) vigorous

D) elaborate

A) make up for

B) get away from

C) fight back against

D) look up to

E) come up with

E) swift

1

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English

7-16: For these questions, choose the best
word(s) or expression(s) to fill the space(s).

9. By 2.5 million years ago, when they began ---- stone
tools, early humans had understood that they ---- the
natural world to their own advantage.
A) to have made / had to alter

7. A number of studies have concluded that a given
level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere ---- less
warming than previously ----.

B) to make / used to alter

A) is producing / to think

C) making / could alter

B) has produced / thinking

D) having made / should have altered

C) produces / thought

E) to have been making / must have altered

D) has been producing / having thought
E) had produced / being thought

10. Dramatists and scriptwriters could place their
characters ---- the centre of a terrifying human
conflict, and may allow us to watch these characters
suffer the pains of avoiding a collision ---- the
conflict.

8. Anyone who ---- unusual reactions to antihistamines
(medicines that relieve or prevent the symptoms of
some kinds of allergy) in the recent past ---- his or
her physician know before taking the drugs again.

A) on / for

B) over / in

D) to / about

C) at / with
E) by / from

A) used to have / might let
B) had had / must have let
C) was having / could let
D) has had / should let

11. ---- the problems of obesity and disordered eating
growing around the world, public health
professionals have focused research efforts on
identifying potential causes and treatments ---these related problems.

E) had / might have let

A) About / in

B) On / towards

C) With / for

D) Through / from
E) Among / at

2

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English

12. ---- there is no consensus among folklorists on how
to define folklore nor how to explain the issues of
the meaning and the function of it, folklore generally
refers to cultural expressions, such as narratives,
music, dance, beliefs and festivals.
A) Once

B) While
D) As

15. In statistics, ---- the standard deviation allows us to
see how much individuals vary within a sample, ---the standard error allows us to estimate how much
samples will vary within a population.

C) Until

A) whether / or

B) no sooner / than

C) rather / than

D) hardly / when

E) In case

E) just as / so

13. Industrial nations consume nearly 75 to 80 percent
of the fossil fuels burned each year; ----, they are
responsible for the majority of greenhouse gas
emissions.
A) instead

B) on the contrary

C) as a result

D) for example

16. The idea of the Internet was initially to provide
redundancy of communications ---- a catastrophic
event like a nuclear blast, which might destroy a
single connection or computer but not the entire
network.

E) however

A) such as

B) on behalf of

C) in terms of

D) in addition to
E) in case of

14. Buildings such as the Hagia Sophia in Istanbul,
Turkey date back to the sixth century and yet are
still standing ---- they are located in
earthquake-prone areas.
A) as long as

B) unless

C) as if

D) although
E) since

3

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English
17-21: For these questions, choose the best
word or expression to fill the spaces in the
passage.

19.

Fossil fuel use is one of the main causes of climate
change and the greenhouse effect. (17)----, we must
significantly reduce carbon dioxide emissions from
activities like heating and transportation. One option
would be to (18)---- to renewable energy sources
wherever possible, such as solar, hydropower, wind or
geothermal systems. Another important step is to
reduce our individual energy footprint. For example,
driving a car places a particularly high burden on the
environment (19)---- the carbon dioxide emissions into
the air. Yet, we should keep in mind that there are
several ways to lessen the impact and still continue
(20)---- cars. For instance, by choosing (21)---- many new
energy-saving models, we can help reduce harmful
emissions.

A) regardless of

B) rather than

C) as opposed to

D) due to

E) in spite of

20.
A) to have used

B) being used

C) using

D) to be used
E) having used

17.
A) Conversely

B) Similarly

C) Otherwise

D) However

21.

E) Therefore

A) from

B) onto

C) at

D) towards
E) over

18.
A) confine

B) object

C) switch

D) accommodate
E) respond

4

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English
22-26: For these questions, choose the best
word or expression to fill the spaces in the
passage.

24.

When fighting fat, and trying to eat healthily, changing
your eating environment is easier than changing your
mind. A research team in the US has set about
uncovering the hidden persuaders in our homes that
trick us (22)---- overeating – things like serving spoons,
cupboards and colours. But most of these tempters can
also be reversed to make us slimmer and healthier.
(23)---- there are many solutions to mindless eating,
most of them will go undiscovered because if we have a
problem with our diet, we tend to focus on food itself,
not on our surroundings. All that requires willpower,
which is hard work and has to last a lifetime to be
(24)---- successful. Research has found subtle ways to
change our homes, workplaces, schools, or modify our
approach to restaurant dining and grocery shopping, so
we mindlessly eat less (25)---- eating more. If we want to
automatically eat better, we do not need to change our
minds, we (26)---- our surroundings.

B) into

D) behind

B) vaguely

C) truly

D) partially
E) seemingly

25.
A) due to

B) instead of

C) with regard to

D) in terms of

E) together with

22.
A) against

A) coincidentally

26.

C) without
E) off

A) have to optimise

B) must have optimised

C) may have optimised

D) could have optimised

E) would optimise

23.
A) Given that
D) Unless

B) Just as

C) Before
E) Although

5

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English

27-36: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the given sentence.

29. Although alchemy began as a way to turn other
metals into gold, ----.
A) it matured into a system of thinking about nature that
contributed to the development of modern chemistry

27. Because of its power and potential for both harm
and good, ----.

B) alchemistic ideas and practices flourished in the
ancient world within several cultural traditions

A) modern meteorology has made notable improvements
in the critical discipline of predicting severe weather

C) a number of spectacular failures eventually led to the
disappearance of alchemy in China

B) meteorologists are the only professionals who can
keep their jobs and still be wrong half the time

D) alchemists continued in their relentless quest for gold
well into the sixteenth century

C) scientists have studied cloud seeding with the goal of
making it rain in places experiencing prolonged
droughts

E) its objectives were to find ways of accelerating the
rates at which metals could be changed into gold

D) the weather has been a subject of intense interest and
scrutiny by human beings since ancient times
E) it seems unlikely that we will ever get to the point of
being able to predict the weather with 100 percent
accuracy

30. Although the available evidence shows no use of
colour or decoration on early footwear, ----.
A) the existence of twenty-five-thousand-year-old clothing
suggests that footwear may be older than is even
presently known

28. Forensic investigators must collect evidence
while the crime scene is still fresh ----.

B) the elaborate weaving on some shoes seems to
indicate that prehistoric people would care about the
appearance of the shoes

A) because forensic science is the use of scientific
methods to investigate crimes

C) prehistoric shoes had to resist heavy usage, whether
made from leather or from plant fibers

B) since forensic scientists study evidence at the homes
and workplaces of suspects
C) although it is the job of forensic scientists to provide
evidence at a criminal trial

D) the oldest known shoes are ten-thousand-year-old
sandals found in a desert area of eastern Oregon
of the US

D) even if the area is unsafe and they have to work under
armed guard

E) prehistoric humans would make their shoes shortly
after killing animals, such as sheep and deer

E) as many sciences, from chemistry to engineering, are
used in an investigation

6

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English

31. While most research on the role of genetics and the
heritability of aggression has ruled out the idea of
an aggressive gene, ----.

33. Some birds build nests simply to protect their young
----.
A) since many small animals that live above the ground
make their homes in trees

A) most definitions of aggression indicate that it
represents behaviours that are intended to hurt or
harm another

B) until they have learned how to look after themselves
and survive in the wild on their own

B) it is currently thought that one might inherit the
biological susceptibility for being aggressive

C) given that they make mud huts that are placed in all
kinds of places, from undergrowth to fence posts

C) one of the most widely discussed theories of
aggressive behavior is Albert Bandura’s social
learning theory

D) although sometimes a squirrel takes over an empty
bird's nest and makes its home there

D) there are a number of different ways to conceptualise
subtypes of aggressive behaviours

E) while colonies of wasps build their nests from the top
downward

E) much of the research on aggression has focused
primarily upon children who are physically aggressive

34. Of the 20 amino acids that make up all proteins, 9
are considered essential ----.
A) if thousands of proteins are assembled from some 20
different amino acids

32. ----, it will not be possible to turn a draft into a
finished piece of work.
A) Although an author may have a hard time evaluating
what he or she has written

B) as the best sources of complete protein are lean
meats, fish, low-fat dairy products, and eggs

B) Even if an author thinks that characterisation is poor in
his or her work

C) even if some foods are better sources of protein than
others

C) Unless an author knows the strengths and
weaknesses of a manuscript

D) because they cannot be made in our bodies and must
be obtained from the foods we eat

D) Because an author should realise that revision turns
an amateur into a professional

E) although the proteins in the foods we eat are digested
first into small peptides

E) When rewriting and polishing lead an author to
produce a good novel

7

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English
37-42: For these questions, choose the most
accurate Turkish translation of the sentences in
English, and the most accurate English translation
of the sentences in Turkish.

35. Trans fat may be as harmful to your health as
saturated fat ----.
A) because it increases blood cholesterol levels, among
other adverse effects

37. Since the 1970s, media literacy has developed
through the work of educators who have
implemented programs to explore mass media,
popular culture, and communication technologies
with children and young people.

B) although major sources are hardened vegetable fat
such as margarine
C) as long as foods high in saturated fat include red
meats and dairy products

A) Medya okuryazarlığı, kitle iletişimini, popüler kültürü ve
iletişim teknolojilerini çocuklar ve genç insanlarla
keşfetmek için çalışan eğitimcilerin yaptığı programlar
sayesinde 1970’lerden beri gelişmektedir.

D) since a diet that has generous amounts of
vegetables is naturally lower in fat
E) even if a diet high in fat can also be unnecessarily
high in calories

B) 1970’lerden beri medya okuryazarlığı, çocuklarla ve
genç insanlarla kitle iletişimini, popüler kültürü ve
iletişim teknolojilerini keşfetmek için programlar
uygulayan eğitimcilerin çalışmaları aracılığıyla
gelişmektedir.
C) Çocuklar ve genç insanlarla kitle iletişimini, popüler
kültürü ve iletişim teknolojilerini keşfetmek için
programlar düzenleyen eğitimcilerin çalışmaları
sayesinde medya okuryazarlığı 1970’lerden
günümüzdeki hâline gelmiştir.

36. ----, he was foremost an inventor and more
interested in attracting public interest in his work
than advancing scientific knowledge.

D) Medya okuryazarlığının gelişmesi çocuklarla ve genç
insanlarla kitle iletişimini, popüler kültürü ve iletişim
teknolojilerini keşfetmek için 1970’lerden beri
programlar uygulayan eğitimcilerin çalışmaları
sayesinde olmuştur.

A) When the philosopher Alfred North Whitehead
famously credited Thomas Edison with the discovery
of a method of invention
B) While Thomas Edison saw himself as a member of the
larger scientific community and presented papers
before the National Academy of Sciences

E) Kitle iletişimini, popüler kültürü ve iletişim teknolojilerini
keşfetmek üzere 1970’lerden beri çocuklara ve genç
insanlara uygulanan programlar eğitimcilerin
çalışmalarıyla birlikte medya okuryazarlığını
geliştirmiştir.

C) As Thomas Edison began his inventive career by
becoming a contract inventor in the telegraph industry
after working as a telegraph operator in the mid-1860s
D) Because Thomas Edison depended more on the
assistance of a large staff of experimenters and
machinists who made important contributions to his
inventive efforts
E) Although reputation was significant for Thomas
Edison, particularly because of his popular image as
the primary inventor of several new technologies

8

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English

38. As members of households established complex
relationships with outsiders during the agrarian era,
they came under the influence of new rules,
structures, and expectations.

40. Karşılaştığımız bütün problemleri eşit derecede
iyi çözemeyebiliriz, çünkü her bir problem farklı ve
yaratıcı bir çözüm gerektirebilir.
A) We cannot solve all the problems we encounter
equally well because we may need to develop a
unique and creative solution to each problem.

A) Hane fertleri, tarım dönemi boyunca yabancılarla
çeşitli ilişkiler kurarak yeni kuralların, yapıların ve
beklentilerin etkisi altına girmişlerdir.

B) The reason why we may not deal with all the problems
we confront equally well is that each problem may
require a different and innovative solution.

B) Hane fertlerinin yabancılarla karmaşık ilişkiler
kurması tarım dönemine denk gelmiştir ve bu
dönemde yeni kurallardan, yapılardan ve
beklentilerden etkilenmişlerdir.

C) Because each problem may call for a distinct and
creative solution, all the problems we face cannot be
settled equally well.

C) Tarım döneminde hane fertlerinin yabancılarla çeşitli
ilişkiler kurmasının sebebi; yeni kuralların, yapıların ve
beklentilerin etkisi altına girmiş olmalarıdır.

D) We may not be able to solve all the problems we
confront equally well since each problem might
require a different and creative solution.

D) Tarım döneminde hane fertleri yabancılarla karmaşık
ilişkiler kurdukça yeni kuralların, yapıların ve
beklentilerin etkisi altına girmişlerdir.

E) We could not overcome all the problems we encounter
equally well now that a different and innovative
solution may need to be produced for each problem.

E) Yeni kuralların, yapıların ve beklentilerin etkisi altına
giren hane fertleri, tarım döneminde yabancılarla daha
karmaşık ilişkiler kurmuşlardır.

39. More than a hundred different studies have shown
that there really is a significant relation between
happiness and physical health.
A) Yapılan yüzden fazla farklı çalışma göstermiştir ki
mutluluk ile beden sağlığı arasında gerçekten önemli
bir ilişki bulunabilir.
B) Mutluluk ile beden sağlığı arasındaki önemli bir
ilişkinin gerçekliği, yüzden fazla farklı çalışma
sayesinde ortaya konmuştur.
C) Mutluluk ile beden sağlığı arasında gerçekten önemli
bir ilişki olup olmadığını göstermek için yüzden fazla
farklı çalışma yapılmıştır.
D) Yüzden fazla farklı çalışma, mutluluk ile beden sağlığı
arasında gerçekten önemli bir ilişki olduğunu
göstermiştir.
E) Yüzden fazla farklı çalışmaya göre, mutluluk ile beden
sağlığı arasında gerçekten önemli bir ilişki olabilir.

9

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English

41. 20. yüzyılın başlarında Albert Einstein adında genç
bir Alman, klasik fiziği sarsarak ve mutlak bir zaman
ve uzay fikrini sonlandırarak görelilik kuramını öne
sürdü.

42. Çıraklık sistemleri Avrupa ve Asya ülkelerinde
yaygın bir biçimde kullanılagelmiş olsa da Birleşik
Devletler'dekinden biraz farklı bir biçimde
işlemektedir.

A) At the turn of the 20th century, a young German
named Albert Einstein proposed his theory of relativity,
shaking classical physics and ending the idea of an
absolute time and space.

A) Although apprenticeship systems have been used
widely in European and Asian countries, they operate
in a somewhat different manner than those in the
United States.

B) A young German named Albert Einstein shook
classical physics at the beginning of the 20th
century and put forward his theory of relativity, ending
the idea of an absolute time and space.

B) European and Asian countries have been widely using
apprenticeship systems that operate in a slightly
different manner than the United States.
C) Apprenticeship systems are widely used not only in
European and Asian countries but also in the United
States, but in a somewhat different manner in the
former.

C) At the turn of the 20th century, a young German
named Albert Einstein shook classical physics and
ended the idea of an absolute time and space
by proposing his theory of relativity.

D) Both European and Asian countries and the United
States have been widely using apprenticeship
systems, but the latter has been practising it in a
slightly different manner.

D) Proposing his theory of relativity at the turn of the 20th
century, a young German named Albert Einstein
shook classical physics and ended the idea of an
absolute time and space.

E) There is a slight difference between the apprenticeship
systems in European and Asian countries and those in
the United States, though both have been widely used
for a long time.

E) The theory of relativity, proposed by a young German
named Albert Einstein at the beginning of the 20th
century, shook classical physics and ended the idea of
an absolute time and space.

10

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English
43-46: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

44. It is pointed out in the passage that the tap
water ----.
A) can dramatically increase the severity of diseases due
to the variety of compounds found in it

Pick up a glass, fill it from the tap and take a sip.
You just had a tiny dose of the pill your neighbour took
days before. Excreted and flushed through our sewage
works and waterways, drug molecules are all around us.
A recent analysis of streams in the US detected an
entire pharmacy: diabetic medications, muscle
relaxants, opioids, antibiotics, antidepressants and
more. Drugs have even been found in crops irrigated by
treated waste water. The amounts that end up in your
glass are minuscule, and will not lay you low tomorrow.
However, someone prescribed multiple drugs is more
likely to experience side effects due to these small
doses, and risks rise exponentially with each drug taken
by a person over 65. “These drugs have been
individually approved but we have not studied what it
means when they are together in the same soup,” says
Mae Wu at the National Resources Defense Council
(NRDC).

B) contains drugs that have been found to be illegal as
they are harmful for human health
C) makes it possible for us to determine the types of pills
our neighbours take every day
D) contains medicinal leftovers, which can pass on to us
when we drink water from our taps
E) does not pose any threats for human health because
most of the drugs dissolve quite well in it

45. What can be inferred from Mae Wu's words?
A) The combination of medical waste in the tap water
creates a very hazardous toxic soup.
43. Which of the following can be true about the tap
water in the US?

B) She believes that drinking tap water can cause serious
side effects in most people.

A) The drugs in the tap water are not expected to have
immediate side effects on healthy people.

C) The NRDC is planning to study the effects of drugs
when they are together in the same mixture.

B) There can be a lower risk for elder members of society
who take more than one drug a day.

D) Despite being approved individually, all drugs can be
dangerous when mixed with tap water.

C) Most drugs in the tap water are harmless, but illegal
ones can make people sick.

E) She is unsure of the health effects of the combination
of small doses of different drugs in the tap water.

D) It is more likely for a person to be affected if there are
multiple drug residues in the tap water.
E) The tap water used in houses does not cause negative
effects for adults at all.
46. What is the main purpose of the author?
A) To blame the US authorities for failing to take
precautions against drug leftovers
B) To catch the attention of academicians to find a
solution to the problem of contaminated tap water
C) To dissuade readers from continuing to use tap water
in the US
D) To warn readers against possible health risks that may
be caused by tap water
E) To call for more action from the NRDC in sterilising tap
water

11

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English
47-50: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

48. How does a horned lizard defend itself when faced
with a predator?
A) It blends into its surroundings using its natural
colouring and shape.

Admired by native peoples for thousands of years, the
Texas horned lizard has an array of abilities. It mostly
eats ants – lots of them, and most parts of an ant’s body
are indigestible, which necessitates a huge stomach.
Eating more than two hundred ants per day means
exposure out in the open for long periods, and having a
‘heavy’ stomach means that a horned lizard finds it
difficult to run away from predators. Instead, it relies on
an armory of defences. It has camouflage colouring,
with an outline broken up by spines and outgrowths, and
it will freeze if a predator approaches. Its horns and
spines can pierce the throat of a snake or bird, and it
can hiss and blow itself up to look even more fearsome.
When it comes to coyotes, foxes, and dogs, a horned
lizard’s most spectacular defence is to squirt foul-tasting
blood from the sinuses behind its eyes. That usually has
the desired effect. But it squirts only when it is provoked,
since it risks losing up to one quarter of its blood. Such
abilities are, however, no defense against human
invasion of its land. Its strange shape and colouring has
made it attractive to reptile collectors, and its habit of
freezing means that it is prone to being run over.

B) It freezes the predator with the help of its spines.
C) It makes itself smaller than normal to confuse the
predator.
D) It releases a kind of liquid to make the predator
suffocate.
E) It changes its colour and shape to become more
threatening to its predators.

49. It could be bad for a horned lizard to use its
own blood for defence because ----.
A) it might lose a high amount of blood, which would put
its life at risk
B) predators like the taste of the blood, making them
more willing to eat it
C) the bright colour of the blood could make it easy
for predators to see it

47. For a horned lizard, eating too many ants means
that it ----.
A) has to spend more time to digest what it has eaten
than to hunt for food

D) it is an ineffective way of defence when the predator is
a snake or bird

B) is more vulnerable to predators while trying to run
away

E) the smell of the blood could attract more predators

C) will become highly indigestible for its predators
D) seems to get physically stronger in its struggle
to survive in the wild

50. Upon contact with humans, a horned lizard ----.

E) causes a huge decrease in the ant population living
around its habitat

A) is often hunted by collectors due to being confused
with other reptiles
B) attacks humans in an effort to defend its territory
C) is likely to be run over because it does not move when
in danger
D) immediately changes its original shape and colour
E) tries to escape by crawling rather than moving fast

12

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English
51-54: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

52. It is emphasised in the passage that Richard
Aidan Martin ----.
A) monitored great whites mistaking surfers and
scuba-divers for seals and sea lions

More mythology surrounds the shark than any
other creatures in the ocean. This is partly a symptom
of their colossal size – adult male great whites can
measure in excess of five metres; the temptation for
humans to add a metre here or there after reported
sightings is irresistable. Sharks are also, by nature,
mysterious. Scientists still know next to nothing about
great whites’ breeding habits; a birth in the wild has
never been observed. One of the biggest great
white shark myths is that the creature, disabled by its
notoriously poor vision, often mistakes surfers and
scuba-divers for its main prey – seals and sea lions.
“Completely false,” says Richard Aidan Martin, director
of the ReefQuest Centre for Shark Research in
Vancouver, Canada. After observing 1,000 predatory
attacks on sea lions by great whites for five years, he
states that the sharks rocket to the surface and crush
their prey with incredible force; however, they usually
approach humans with leisurely or undramatic
behaviour. Martin points out that great whites are
curious and investigative animals, which is what most
people do not realise. When great whites bite something
unfamiliar to them, whether a person or a sea creature,
they are looking for tactile evidence about what it is.
They usually throw humans out of their mouth after
an exploratory bite rather than swallow them for food
because humans are too bony. To add more, great
whites must be extremely selective about their diet.
Their digestive tracts function very slowly, and eating
the wrong thing would slow the shark down for days and
stop them from consuming anything else.

B) focused especially on the disadvantages of great
whites’ notoriously poor vision
C) examined attacks on sea lions by great whites to
prove their aggressive nature
D) noted that great whites do not come closer to humans
in an actively predatory way
E) tried to collect precise information on great whites by
observing 1,000 attacks on humans

53. Which of the following is pointed out in the
passage?
A) Great whites confuse humans with seals and sea lions
due to their low ability to see.
B) Great whites bite humans to explore if their bones are
to their taste.
C) Great whites are often incapable of choosing the right
food for their diet.
D) Great whites avoid biting humans and sea creatures
that are unfamiliar to them.
E) Great whites' diet does not include humans because
they have too much bone for them.

51. It is understood from the passage that great whites
----.
A) have hardly ever been examined in terms of their
breeding habits
54. Which could be the best title for this passage?

B) are mysterious because why they mainly prey on seals
and sea lions has not been clarified

A) The Extraordinary Diet of Great Whites

C) are giant creatures whose size can never be
measured exactly

B) The Unknown World of Great Whites
C) Deadly Attacks of Great Whites on Humans

D) have been studied more extensively than any other
creatures in the ocean

D) The Impressive Size of Great Whites

E) have unusual breeding habits to which scientists have
been paying particular attention

E) Enormous Diversity of Great Whites’ Prey

13

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English
55-58: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

56. What can be understood about Humperdinck?
A) He was criticised for presenting Hansel and Gretel
differently from the previous versions of it.

The story of Hansel and Gretel, in which two children
outsmart a witch who is about to destroy them, was
passed down to us from the brothers Jacob and
Wilhelm Grimm. They began recording various folk tales
told to them by villagers and farmers near the town of
Kassel, Germany, in about 1807. Hansel and Gretel was
told to the brothers by a young girl, Doretchen Wild, who
years later became Wilhelm Grimm's wife. The fairy
tale gained wide popularity after German composer
Engelbert Humperdinck made it the basis of a children's
opera, first introduced in Munich in 1893. However, the
opera, as well as subsequent versions of the story,
omits the most traumatising aspect of the traditional
tale: the parents’ deliberate abandonment of their
children to the wild beasts of the forest. Another
important feature of Hansel and Gretel is that it was not
only known through German oral tradition. A version
circulating in France as early as the late 17th century
had a house made not of gingerbread but of gold and
jewels, in which a young girl is held by a giant whom she
eventually pushes into his own fire. However, it was the
Grimm brothers who immortalised the tale for future
generations – an excellent story that every child
throughout the world should come across.

B) He intentionally highlighted some details of Hansel
and Gretel to increase its popularity.
C) He reached a large audience especially attracted
to the opera but not to the story of Hansel and Gretel.
D) He made Hansel and Gretel quite famous by
producing a children's opera inspired by the story.
E) He removed the traumatising part of Hansel and
Gretel to create a more cheerful story.

57. The saddest part of Hansel and Gretel is that ----.
A) a giant in France is pushed into a fire by a little girl
B) the children's parents are not aware of the dangers of
wild beasts in the forest
C) the parents do not care for their children and cause
them to get caught by a witch
D) despite the presence of wild beasts, the children are
left alone in the forest without any concern

55. Which of the following can be said about the story
of Hansel and Gretel?

E) a young girl is captured in a giant's house

A) It was initially written by the Grimm brothers and
became very popular in a short time.
B) It illustrates the dangers faced by two children who
lived in Kassel, Germany, in about 1807.
58. What is the Grimm brothers' impact on the story of
Hansel and Gretel?

C) It reveals the typical features of German culture
because it is told by villagers and farmers.

A) They gave inspiration to many other arts, and showed
a fairy tale can be a product of popular culture.

D) It was verbally transferred to the Grimm brothers like
some other stories.

B) They recorded one of the diverse versions of the
story and made it universally known as a children's
literature must-read.

E) It was told by Doretchen Wild to the villagers and
farmers in Kassel, Germany.

C) They added a new dimension to children's literature by
telling a story which has wild beasts and witches trying
to catch children.
D) They proved that the important thing is to record a
story so it can be used in other cultural activities.
E) They showed that traumatising events can be used as
instructions for children.

14

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English
59-62: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

60. What motivated Piccard to fly around the world in a
solar-powered plane?
A) His desire to follow in his family’s footsteps and
continue their tradition of being first

In Bertrand Piccard’s family, there is a tradition of being
first. His grandfather, Auguste, was the first person to
ride a balloon into the stratosphere. His father, Jacques,
was the first to reach the Earth’s deepest point, the
Pacific’s Mariana Trench. And in 1999, Piccard
completed the first non-stop, around-the-world balloon
flight. This feat, plus an environmentally conscious
approach to innovation, spurred the renowned Swiss
adventurer to dream of circumnavigating the globe in a
plane that uses no fuel. The result is the Solar Impulse
2, an aircraft equipped with more than 17,000 solar
cells. Thanks to lithium batteries that efficiently store
energy reserves, it is the first solar-powered plane that
can fly through the night. “If we want to solve our
pollution and energy problems,” says Piccard, a
psychiatrist by training, “we need to increase our energy
efficiency and focus on clean technologies. Solar
Impulse 2 is really a way to show that those
technologies are mature.”

B) His awareness of the need to develop environmentally
friendly, cost-effective engineering
C) His previous success and his desire to be
environmentally friendly
D) His attempt to make the world’s first balloon flight
E) His knowledge of green technologies and his family’s
concern about pollution and energy problems

61. What is clearly stated as being unique about
Piccard’s aircraft?
A) It has more solar cells than any aircraft built before it.
B) It runs completely on the cleanest lithium batteries.

59. What can be inferred about Piccard’s father and
grandfather?

C) It has very efficient energy storage means, which will
allow it to fly at night.

A) They preferred to follow their dreams rather than have
careers.

D) It uses solar cells for power, allowing it to fly without
fuel or the need to ever stop.

B) They were not afraid of taking risks and pursuing their
dreams.

E) It reserves all the energy it gains from the solar cells in
lithium batteries.

C) They were both renowned scientists in their fields.
D) They were very supportive of Piccard’s ambitions.
E) They were just as concerned about the environment
as Piccard.

62. In Piccard’s own words, what is the main purpose of
Solar Impulse 2?
A) To show that a plane with no fuel is able to fly around
the world
B) To indicate that more needs to be done to further
develop solar-powered planes
C) To contribute to the improvement of lithium batteries’
efficiency
D) To demonstrate that the technology available today is
ready to help solve pollution and energy problems
E) To prepare the world for the next generation of clean
technologies

15

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English

63-67: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the dialogue.

64. Researcher:
 From your documentary, we learned that Princess
Diana secretly collaborated with journalist
Andrew Morton to write a book about her life, in
which he discloses details of her troubled
relations with the royal family.

63. Reporter:
 Kids love to eat hamburgers, but they're not very
healthy. Tell us about the public school
initiative to make lunches healthier for students.

Documentarist:
 Well, when the book was published in 1992,
Diana’s cooperation was a secret. But, when
Morton republished the book after her death in
1997, he exposed the fact that Diana herself was
the direct source for many revelations in the book.

Dietician:
 With some help from food engineers, we've
created a mushroom-beef blend that's being used
in schools across the country to help students eat
healthier.

Reporter:
 ----

Reporter:
 ----

Documentarist:
 He wanted to bring an important fact to light; the
Princess herself wanted the public to know she
was not living a fairy tale, but a life of misery.

Dietician:
 True. In addition to fewer calories and saturated
fats than regular hamburgers, this blend is also a
greener alternative to meat since mushrooms are
more sustainable than beef.

A) Why did Morton’s book change the way the world
looked at the royal family?

Reporter:
 That makes sense as they require fewer resources
than livestock to produce.

B) Do you think the public was as deeply affected as
Morton by Diana’s death?

A) I think there are more than just health benefits to using
this vegetable and meat blend.

C) How could Morton convince people that his book was
based on Diana’s own words?

B) It seems that the health benefits are the most positive
thing about this vegetable and meat blend.

D) What may have prompted Morton to reveal Diana’s
involvement in the publication?

C) As far as I understand, blending mushrooms with beef
requires some careful procedures.

E) How did Morton deal with the criticism from the royal
family and the British media?

D) I don't think this is a more sustainable alternative to
traditional meat hamburgers.
E) Great! I think students will like eating this vegetable
and meat blend at lunch.

16

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English

65. Journalist:
 You’re the co-leader of an international project to
drill for rock samples in the South China Sea. Why
is that sea bed of such interest?

66. Professor:
 And here you see a picture of a little devil frog.
The male produces noisy sounds in pursuit of a
partner.

Geophysicist:
 We want to answer questions about when it was
formed to better understand continental
movements.

Student:
 ---Professor:
 Well, he's a poisonous frog and has bright
colours which warn predators that he's unsafe to
eat.

Journalist:
 ---Geophysicist:
 We also plan to study the microbiology of the
ocean crust to see if there are new organisms at
these great depths.

Student:
 How significant characteristics it has!
A) Do the sounds he makes differ or does he use the
same kind of sounds?

A) What key questions do you hope to answer?

B) How do the partners react to these sounds when they
hear them?

B) What kind of rocks do you expect to find?
C) How will you determine how old the rocks are?

C) Is it really difficult for the little devil frog to find a
partner?

D) What methods are you going to use to collect all these
samples?

D) But doesn't it make him noticeable and vulnerable to
being attacked?

E) What other things may this study help us understand?

E) Is it only males, or do females also produce such
sounds before mating?

17

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English

68-71: For these questions, choose the best
rephrased form of the given sentence.

67. Matthew:
 A friend of mine plays in an orchestra and has
invited me to their concert. I’m really nervous
because I don’t know anything about orchestras.

68. While in Holland, John Locke had time to complete a
number of important works that established his
reputation as England’s foremost political theorist.

Judy:
 Actually, most people don’t know much about
orchestras. Just pay attention to the instrument
categories, and then you’ll be less worried.

A) Whereas John Locke wrote many of his important
works in Holland, he earned a reputation as the most
important political theorist in England.

Matthew:
 ----

B) John Locke, who was famous for being England’s
principal political theorist, spent some time in Holland
to produce some of his most important works.

Judy:
 Well, each group sits together. First, you have the
strings. Woodwinds are in the following section.
Behind them are the brass instruments, and at the
back is the percussion section.

C) His stay in Holland, during which he completed most
of his important works, helped John Locke to be
accepted as one of the most significant political
theorists of England.

A) How do you know the features of all these
categories? Have you ever taken a course about
orchestras?

D) Thanks to several important works he finished during
his stay in Holland, John Locke made quite a name for
himself as the leading political theorist of England.

B) How exactly is a typical orchestra organised? If I learn
that at least, maybe I can relax and enjoy the
performance.

E) It was the countless important works he finalised in
Holland that earned him a name as one of the most
prominent political theorists in England.

C) As far as I know, you’ve attended several concerts
before. Can you predict what will attract me most at
the concert?
D) What do you know about the percussion section? I
think that’s the section my friend plays in. So, please
tell me about it.
E) I don’t even know the name of instruments played in
an orchestra. Are there many different instruments?

18

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English

69. Delicately carved from mammoth tusk, the Lady of
Brassempouy was discovered in southwest France
in 1894 and is among the oldest representations of a
human face.

70. While professional advertisers scoff at the idea, the
general public seems to assume that subliminal
advertising is widely and effectively practiced.
A) Despite the fact that professional advertisers ridicule
the public for believing in the widespread and efficient
use of subliminal advertising, the public still insists on
doing so.

A) The oldest representation of a human's face is
an 1894 mammoth tusk, delicate carving of the Lady
of Brassempouy, which was found in southwest
France.

B) As professional advertisers praise this concept, an
increasing portion of the population also believes that
subliminal advertising is commonly and efficiently
used.

B) The Lady of Brassempouy, representing the oldest
human face, was made from gently carved mammoth
tusk and unearthed in southwest France in 1894.

C) Professional advertisers appear to be praising the idea
that subliminal advertising is generally practiced, an
assumption commonly held by the general public.

C) Found in 1894 in southwest France, the Lady of
Brassempouy is one of the oldest representations of a
human face, gently carved from the tusk of a
mammoth.

D) It appears that ordinary people believe subliminal
advertising is extensively and successfully carried out
although professional advertisers laugh at this notion.

D) Amongst many delicate mammoth tusk carvings of the
human face, the Lady of Brassempouy is the oldest
and its discovery was made in southwest France in
1894.

E) The general population thinks that there are some
people who make use of subliminal advertising
efficiently; however, professional advertisers seem to
think the opposite.

E) One of the oldest delicate human face carvings, the
Lady of Brassempouy was identified in 1894 to be
made of mammoth tusk in southwest France.

19

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English
72-75: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the missing part of the
passage.

71. The years following the 1789 revolution in France
brought massive upheaval in French society, which,
in turn, produced profound changes in dress and
fashion.

72. It has been a basic tenet that an individual who uses
substances heavily will become addicted. There are
reports, however, of people becoming addicted to a
substance with exposure only once or a few times.
Some experts believe people are born with the
predisposition to become addicted. ---- Thus, the
potential for addiction may be hereditary. On the
other hand, a psychological problem may lead the
individual into addiction. The need for instant
gratification, a feeling of being socially ostracized,
and an inability to cope with the downfalls of life
have all been cited as possible springboards to
addiction.

A) Although the revolution took place in France in 1789, it
was only after many years that French society went
through considerable changes in dress and fashion
following this great disturbance in their society.
B) The revolution in France in 1789 led to a serious
disturbance among people in French society, and this
was the reason why the French had to allow for
fundamental and important changes in dress and
fashion.
C) If it were not for the revolution in France in 1789, dress
and fashion in French society might not have changed
considerably despite the enormous disturbance it
caused in their society.

A) One characteristic that marks addiction, whether to
chemicals or nonchemical practices, is the genetic
modification it leads to.

D) What contributed to the revolution in France in 1789
were the major changes in dress and fashion, which
resulted from the huge confusion experienced by
French society at that time.

B) A careful medically-controlled withdrawal program can
reverse the chemical changes in genes caused by the
addiction.

E) It was not until after the revolution in France in 1789
that French society experienced dramatic changes in
dress and fashion, due to the enormous turmoil
generated by this period.

C) Habitual use of an addictive substance can produce
changes in body chemistry and any treatment must be
geared to a gradual reduction in dosage.
D) Studies have found that many former addicts have
enough determination to avoid drugs for the rest of
their lives.
E) Children of addicts have a greater probability of
becoming addicts themselves than children whose
parents are not.

20

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English

73. In almost all cultures and societies, children have
collected a broad spectrum of items. Although the
activity seems to be universal, very little has been
written on this subject. And even though collecting
has played an important part in many individuals’
lives, it is seldom described in memoirs or
autobiographies. This may be because many
collections are suddenly abandoned when the
collector grows up. ---- Other collections, however,
continue into adult life, becoming lifelong
passionate occupations; this is especially likely with
collections that have some kind of economic value
or present the adult with challenges or opportunities
for further study.

74. Fossils are remnants or traces of an animal or plant
of a past geologic age that have been preserved in
various ways in the Earth’s crust. From earliest
times people must have seen fossils, but the first
reports we have on the subject are from the ancient
Greeks. Xenophanes of the early Ionian school is
said to have noticed fossilised sea creatures high
on mountains; he correctly interpreted this as
meaning that these mountains had once been under
water. ---- For example, he associated the fossilised
bones of large creatures with mythical animals or
with giant humans.
A) In the 17th century, Nicolaus Steno argued
persuasively that fossils are remains of living
organisms.

A) Most children will carry on adding to their collections
throughout adulthood because they are so attached to
them.
B) Many are often split up and disappear during
childhood unless parents understand the fascinating
world of the small collector and pay special attention to
saving them.

B) In Roman times, Suetonius casually mentions that the
emperor Augustus kept a collection of large fossil
bones in his villa.
C) The famous scholar Avicenna put forward an idea that
confused people about fossils for centuries.

C) The spirit of the collector, once established, never
leaves the individual but is turned in new directions
and can result in life-changing career choices.

D) Later, Herodotus reached the same conclusion
regarding fossilized clam shells, but he misinterpreted
other fossils.

D) Grand collections may end up in places like museums,
which seems to be the dream of collectors who do not
want their passionate investments to disappear with
them.

E) Theophrastus, Aristotle’s successor, is said to have
written a book on fossils, which was lost later, where
he refers to fossilised fish.

E) Collecting trains the eye, creates a sense of order, and
develops aesthetic appreciation, while at the same
time creating a sense of economic appreciation for
certain items.

21

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English

76-80: For these questions, choose the irrelevant
sentence in the passage.

75. According to a World Bank report in 1993, the East
Asian miracle, achieving high economic growth for
all people, is due to a combination of fundamentally
sound development policies, tailored interventions,
and an unusually rapid increase of physical and
human capital. The more advanced economies in
the Asian region are part of this success and have
been referred to as high-performing East Asian
economies. ---- In addition, these economies have
displayed high per capita incomes, along with a
much-improved income distribution, compared with
most other developing economies.

76. (I) Across the globe, people greeted the end of World
War II with a profound sense of relief. (II) By virtually any
measurement, the war had been the most devastating
conflict in human history. (III) The more traditional and
more widely accepted date for the start of World War II
is 1 September 1939, with the quick but not quite
blitzkrieg (lightning) German invasion of Poland.
(IV) The war’s economic cost alone has been calculated
at perhaps five times that of World War I. (V) In human
terms, it claimed half again as many military lives:
15 million versus 10 million for World War I.

A) In contrast, the dramatic growth of the Asian tiger
economies has been based on the export of
manufactured goods.

A) I

B) Poorer countries have greater difficulty than relatively
richer countries climbing up the ladder of
development.

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V

C) The study suggests that economies with a strong
inward focus could not succeed.
D) Such economies have a record of high and sustained
economic growth.

77. (I) The idea of the human mind as the domain of
absolute protection from external intrusion has persisted
for centuries. (II) Today, however, this presumption
might no longer hold. (III) Sophisticated neuro-imaging
machines detect the electrical activity of neurons,
enabling us to decode and even alter the nervous
system signals that accompany mental processes.
(IV) Medical devices connected to the brain are
vulnerable to sabotage, and neuroscientists suggest
that the same vulnerability applies to brain implants.
(V) Whereas these advances have a great potential for
research and medicine, they pose a fundamental
ethical, legal and social challenge: determining under
what conditions it is legitimate to gain access to another
person’s neural activity.

E) Promoting trade is positively related to levels of per
capita income.

A) I

22

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Spring/English

78. (I) The best conditions for dandelion seeds are relatively
calm, sunny days that generate thermal updraughts.
(II) A 2003 study at the University of Regensburg in
Germany found that 99.5 percent of dandelion seeds
land within 10 metres of their plant. (III) That is because
the seed 'parachute' falls at about 30 cm per second
and dandelions only grow about 30 cm high. (IV) So, that
gives each seed just one second of flight time to be
blown sideways by the wind to its new home. (V) Higher
wind speeds do not really increase the distance the
seeds fly, because strong winds tend to blow
downwards as well as sideways, so the seeds just land
even sooner.
A) I
B) II
C) III
D) IV
E) V

80. (I) Established on 7 April 1948, the World Health
Organisation (WHO) is one of the original agencies of
the United Nations. (II) WHO defines health not merely
as the absence of disease or illness, but as a state of
complete physical, mental, and social well-being.
(III) Headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, WHO was
set up to improve international cooperation for better
health conditions across the world. (IV) It took over from
the Health Organisation of the League of Nations and
the International Public Office of Health in Paris.
(V) Those two organisations had focused on the control
of epidemics, quarantine measures, and the
standardisation of drugs.
A) I
B) II
C) III
D) IV
E) V

79. (I) The conventional wisdom is that it is a molecule's
specific shape that allows our noses to distinguish
between one smell and another. (II) But there is new
evidence that it is actually the frequency of a molecule's
vibration, a quantum effect, that is all-important.
(III) Most olfactory (smell) scientists believe that
receptors within our noses act like a lock that can only
be activated by a molecule of a specific shape – the
'key'. (IV) Molecules are collections of atoms that can be
thought of as being connected by springs that can
vibrate. (V) The trouble is, some molecules with different
shapes have similar smells.
A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V