
1-6: For these questions, choose the best word or
expression to fill the space.

4. The Big Bang theory is the explanation most
commonly ---- by astronomers for the origin of
the universe.

1. For smokers who are under increased pressure to
give up smoking, one of the easiest ---- is that
quitting smoking makes people more likely to put on
weight.
A) incentives

B) attempts

C) purposes

D) excuses

A) discovered

B) accepted

C) regulated

D) conducted
E) influenced

E) features

5. The relationship between sport and aggression has
been studied ---- for decades, yet researchers still
have a limited understanding of the link between the
two.
2. The primary ---- of an organisation’s accounting
department are to process financial information and
to prepare financial statements at the end of the
accounting period.
A) advancements

B) compensations

C) obstacles

D) objectives

A) severely

B) suspiciously

C) uniquely

D) extensively
E) instantly

E) classifications

6. Sense of control refers to the degree to which
people believe that they can deliberately ---- desired
outcomes and avoid undesirable ones in their
environment.
3. Scholars and historians have offered possible
locations for the mythical island Atlantis, even in
the face of ---- scientific evidence that it does not
exist.
A) compelling

B) doubtful

C) erroneous

D) refutable

A) fill out

B) bring about

C) switch off

D) turn down
E) hand over

E) ambiguous

1

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English

7-16: For these questions, choose the best
word(s) or expression(s) to fill the space(s).

9. Five of the Solomon Islands ---- whole by rising sea
levels, ---- a glimpse into the future of other
low-lying nations, such as the Netherlands and Italy.
A) are being swallowed / having offered

7. For a long time, scientists ---- aware that the Earth’s
atmosphere is not static, but is in constant motion,
producing areas of ever-changing pressure around
the globe, but from 1700 onward, scientists ---- to
discover how and why large-scale atmospheric
movements occur.
A) had been / have begun

B) had been swallowed / being offered
C) will be swallowed / having been offered
D) were swallowed / offered
E) have been swallowed / offering

B) would have been / had begun
C) have been / began
D) would be / were beginning
E) were / would have begun

10. Research ---- media has primarily examined the
effects of media on children ---- a developmental
perspective with a psychological focus on the
correlation or causal variables between the media
and children’s behaviour.
8. Science ---- our every question, but it ---- humanity’s
best tool yet for tackling our greatest challenges.

A) against / under

B) on / from

C) through / across

D) in / beyond

A) may not answer / had remained

E) at / over

B) must not answer / has remained
C) should not answer / will remain
D) cannot answer / remained
E) might not answer / remains

11. Identifying the specific effects of beneficial
microbes that thrive ---- the surface of our bodies
and deep ---- our tissues, researchers are gaining
a new view of how our bodies function.
A) at / over

B) in / along

C) by / down

D) on / within
E) from / through

2

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English

12. Most cheesemakers believe that the brilliant
nuances of flavour found in raw milk, with its
naturally present ‘good’ bacteria, simply cannot be
duplicated in a pasteurised milk cheese ---- some
well-respected cheeses, including British Stilton,
are made only from pasteurised milk.
A) now that

B) after

C) although

D) because

15. Animals are hunted by humans ---- for their meat
---- for parts of their bodies that are used to create
medicines, clothes, and jewellery.
A) neither / nor

B) such / that

C) not only / but also

D) the more / the more

E) as / as

E) only if

16. ---- its notoriety as a naval weapon, the first modern
torpedo was developed in landlocked Austria, or
rather in what was then the Austrian Empire
stretching down to the Adriatic.

13. Surprisingly, the symbol for zero emerged later than
the concepts for other numbers, and ---- the
Babylonians used a symbol for zero, it was merely
a placeholder and not used for computational
purposes.
A) just as

B) as if

C) in case

D) because

A) Along with

B) In terms of

C) Despite

D) Due to
E) Instead of

E) even though

14. Studies have found that the effects of a cup of
coffee or a glass of cola are noticeable after just 10
minutes ---- the peak caffeine concentration in the
blood occurs after 45 minutes.
A) since

B) but

C) provided that

D) as long as
E) unless

3

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English
17-21: For these questions, choose the best
word or expression to fill the spaces in the
passage.

20.

Sometimes when people assert that a language has no
grammar, what they really mean is that there is no
grammar book for that particular language. But the rules
of a language (17)---- in the heads of speakers of that
language. We know the rules are there (18)---- the way
the speakers behave. They use similar structures
(19)---- similar events. If you hear the sentence for
“Give me some water.” in a rarely spoken language
such as Spelitzian, you can be pretty sure you can use
the same pattern for “Give me some food.”, (20)---- there
are other possible patterns as well. If there were not any
patterns, people would not be able to communicate
because they would have no way of knowing what other
people meant (21)----.

A) provided

B) once

C) in case

D) because
E) even if

21.
A) saying

B) to say

C) having said

D) being said
E) to have been said

17.
A) alter

B) recover
D) apply

C) endure
E) exist

18.
A) because of

B) despite

C) contrary to

D) instead of
E) similar to

19.
A) against
D) for

B) on

C) from
E) into

4

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English
22-26: For these questions, choose the best
word or expression to fill the spaces in the
passage.

24.
A) for

B) into
D) from

An electric car future is speeding closer – economic
analysts project that a third of all automobiles could be
battery-powered by 2040. Most of these vehicles
(22)---- large lithium batteries, which prompts worries
about whether the world’s lithium supply can keep up.
(23)----, another element, cobalt, is a bigger concern.
The best lithium battery cathodes (negative electrodes)
all contain cobalt, and its production is limited. Even with
a very conservative estimate of 10 million electric
vehicles (EVs) in 2025, the demand (24)---- cobalt that
year could reach 330,000 metric tons, whereas the
available supply at that time would be at most 290,000
metric tons. Recycling lithium batteries is complicated
and rarely done. Even with higher rates and cheaper
processes, recycling (25)---- the use of lithium batteries
until 10 or more years after mass-market penetration of
EVs. But newer cathode chemistries offer hope.
(26)---- recently developed nickel-rich and cobalt-free
formulations, cobalt demand may decline.

C) about
E) to

25.
A) has not reduced

B) will not reduce

C) does not reduce

D) did not reduce

E) is not reducing

26.
22.
A) call off

B) rely on

C) take in

D) go through

A) Rather than

B) Similar to

C) In comparison with

D) As opposed to

E) Thanks to

E) cut down

23.
A) Consequently

B) In conclusion

C) At least

D) However
E) Otherwise

5

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English

27-36: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the given sentence.

29. While people can generally cough voluntarily, ----.
A) infectious viruses can be easily transmitted between
individuals through coughing

27. ----, but the creation of genetic techniques to safely
halt or reverse age-related conditions in humans
has so far proven improbable.

B) most people cough once or twice an hour during the
day to clear irritants off the airway
C) environmental pollutants, such as cigarette smoke
and dust, can also cause a cough

A) Some researchers have doubts whether a new genetic
technique could be developed as a first step towards
the medical world’s fabled ‘elixir of youth’

D) the cough that accompanies a cold usually lasts one
to two weeks

B) It has long been known that manipulating certain
genes in an organism can slow ageing and extend its
lifespan

E) vitamins and minerals may be helpful in treating
conditions that lead to coughs

C) More proof will be needed before new genetic
treatments using stem cells can be promoted as the
key to turning back the clock on old age
D) Ageing of the body is a dynamic process, as often
reported by a number of researchers
E) The efficacy of new methods utilised to prevent ageing
is still questionable

30. When mental disorders, physical conditions, and
functional decline co-occur, ----.
A) older adults face a greatly increased risk of
hospitalisation and placement in long-term care
facilities
B) some older adults have been found to be relatively
active well into their 80s and 90s

28. Because bodybuilders exert large amounts of
energy, ----.

C) it is important to note that older adults vary
substantially in terms of their physical and mental
health

A) they are judged on the physical appearance of their
muscles and encouraged to focus on body image

D) physical decline is associated with causing a number
of mental disorders among older adults

B) they try to achieve the body type that will help them be
effective competitors in their sport

E) mental health problems such as depression are not a
natural consequence of growing older

C) bodybuilding is the development of the physique
through exercise, often for competitive exhibition
D) their metabolism generally requires more calories per
day than the average person
E) bodybuilding is an activity that includes weight training
in order to build muscle mass

6

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English

31. Unless there are substantial changes in the ways
that humans affect ecosystems, ----.

33. ----, the nations of Europe raced to colonise the
continent.

A) we have already caused permanent losses in global
biodiversity

A) Given that almost all European interaction with Africa
took place along the coasts until the 18th century

B) our knowledge of Earth’s species is still incomplete

B) Because African responses to the challenge of
European imperialism were complex

C) there could be as many as 30-50 million species on
Earth

C) Even if colonial administrations enticed or coerced
Africans into producing goods for export

D) there will be much larger losses of biodiversity in the
near future

D) When technological advances made Africa’s interior
readily accessible in the late 19th century

E) the scale by which we consider biodiversity ranges
from local to global

E) Despite several factors that drove the European
scramble for Africa in the 18th century

32. ----, our very lives depend on it to sustain agriculture
and to keep our bodies healthy.

34. ----, the Romans became the first major society to
wear seasonal clothing.

A) Since scientists have long struggled to comprehend
the complexities of the weather

A) Although Romans were very careful about the way
they dressed

B) Just as the Earth’s atmosphere would remain stagnant
without weather

B) As most of what we know about Roman clothing
comes from written sources

C) While cold weather might cause us discomfort or even
more severe health conditions

C) Because their empire grew so great and took them
into very different climates

D) Given that humanity has, indeed, changed the weather

D) Even if Romans made warm winter boots and the first
known raincoat

E) If predicting the weather is still, in many ways, a
haphazard occupation

E) Whereas wealthy Romans had slaves to help choose
their clothing

7

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English
37-42: For these questions, choose the most
accurate Turkish translation of the sentences in
English, and the most accurate English translation
of the sentences in Turkish.

35. ----, the ethnic characteristics and traditions of the
Balkan Peninsula’s food culture have been well
preserved.
A) Provided that it displays both Asian and western
European influences

37. Intelligence, which has been open to a range of
definitions due to its abstract nature and thus has
become a controversial topic, is usually regarded as
a measure of cognitive skills and the ability to solve
problems.

B) Even if meat might not have played a central role in
the past
C) Even though the eastern influence has been very
strong in the last several centuries

A) Çoğunlukla bilişsel becerilerin ve problem çözme
yeteneğinin bir ölçütü olarak görülen zekâ, soyut
doğasından ötürü bir dizi tanıma açık olduğu için
tartışmalı bir konu hâline gelmiştir.

D) As long as its food culture is shaped by the historic,
social and climatic elements

B) Zekâ, soyut doğası gereği bir dizi tanıma açık
olup tartışmalı bir konu hâline gelse de genellikle
bilişsel becerilerin ve problem çözme yeteneğinin bir
ölçütü olarak görülmektedir.

E) While the use of numerous spices constitutes the
basics of its cuisine

C) Genellikle bilişsel becerilerin ve problem çözme
yeteneğinin bir ölçütü olarak görülen zekânın soyut
doğası nedeniyle bir dizi tanıma açık olması, onu
tartışılan bir konu hâline getirmiştir.
D) Soyut doğasından ötürü bir dizi tanıma açık olan ve
bu yüzden tartışmalı bir konu hâline gelen zekâ,
genellikle bilişsel becerilerin ve problem çözme
yeteneğinin bir ölçütü olarak görülmektedir.

36. The Sung dynasty Chinese (AD 960-1279) had the
technology to make rockets, ----.
A) so the first European picture of a rocket was made in
1400

E) Zekâ çoğu zaman bilişsel becerilerin ve problem
çözme yeteneğinin bir ölçütü olarak görülmüş, soyut
doğası gereği bir dizi tanıma açık olmuş ve bundan
dolayı tartışmalı bir konu hâline gelmiştir.

B) thus it was occasionally used as a weapon by
Europeans
C) because the earliest European recipe for black powder
appeared in 1265
D) but there is no definitive evidence that they did so
E) as the origin of the rocket is shrouded in mystery

8

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English

38. World War I was supposed to be the war to end all
wars, but defeated countries were faced with
harsh peace terms, which led to the outbreak of
World War II.

39. Today’s urban developments, coupled with an
increasing population, threaten many archaeological
sites in Egypt.
A) Günümüzdeki kentsel gelişmeler, nüfus artışının da
etkisiyle birlikte, Mısır’daki birçok arkeolojik alan için
tehdit oluşturmaktadır.

A) I. Dünya Savaşı’nın tüm savaşlara son verecek savaş
olacağı düşünülüyordu, fakat yenilen ülkelerin ağır
barış koşullarıyla karşı karşıya kalması sonucunda
II. Dünya Savaşı gerçekleşti.

B) Mısır’daki birçok arkeolojik alan, günümüzdeki kentsel
gelişmeler ve artmakta olan nüfus yüzünden tehdit
altındadır.

B) Tüm savaşlara son verecek savaş olacağı zannedilen
I. Dünya Savaşı’nda yenilen ülkeler ağır barış
koşullarıyla karşı karşıya kaldı ve bu durum II. Dünya
Savaşı’nın ortaya çıkmasına neden oldu.

C) Günümüzdeki kentsel gelişmeler, artmakta olan
nüfusla birlikte, Mısır’daki birçok arkeolojik alanı tehdit
etmektedir.

C) I. Dünya Savaşı’nın tüm savaşları sona erdirecek
savaş olacağı zannediliyordu, ancak yenilen ülkeler
ağır barış koşullarıyla karşı karşıya kaldı, ki bu da
II. Dünya Savaşı’nın ortaya çıkmasına neden oldu.

D) Günümüzdeki kentsel gelişmeler, nüfus artışını
beraberinde getirerek Mısır’daki birçok arkeolojik alan
için tehdit oluşturmaktadır.
E) Günümüzdeki kentsel gelişmelerin artmakta olan
nüfusla desteklenmesi, Mısırda'ki birçok arkeolojik
alanı tehdit etmektedir.

D) II. Dünya Savaşı’nın gerçekleşmesine neden olan şey,
I. Dünya Savaşı’nın tüm savaşlara son verecek savaş
olacağının düşünülmesine rağmen yenilen ülkelerin
ağır barış koşullarıyla karşı karşıya kalmasıydı.
E) I. Dünya Savaşı’nın tüm savaşları sona erdirecek
savaş olacağına inanılsa da yenilen ülkelerin ağır
barış koşullarıyla karşı karşıya kalması, II. Dünya
Savaşı’nın ortaya çıkmasına neden oldu.

9

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English

40. Makro fotoğrafçılığın en önemli tekniklerini
keşfetmek için, fotoğrafçılar bir bahçede ışık
ve konumla çalışmalı ve ufak hareketlerle arka
planın nasıl değiştiğini fark etmelidir.

41. Hastalığın biyolojik doğası kültürden kültüre
değişmese de hastalıkların nasıl algılandığının ciddi
bir biçimde değişiklik gösterdiğine dair net kanıtlar
vardır.

A) The key techniques of macro photography include
working with light and position in a garden, through
which photographers can notice how the background
changes with slight moves.

A) The biological nature of disease does not change from
one culture to another, though we have clear evidence
showing that how diseases are understood is
dramatically different.

B) Discovering the key techniques of macro photography
requires photographers to work with light and position
in a garden and to notice how the background
changes with their slight moves.

B) While the biological nature of disease differs slightly
from one culture to another, there is dramatic variation
in how diseases are understood, as shown by clear
evidence.

C) To notice the key techniques of macro photography,
photographers may work with light and position in
a garden and discover how the background changes
in accordance with slight moves.

C) Even if there is clear evidence suggesting that how
diseases are understood varies dramatically from one
culture to another, the biological nature of disease
remains constant.

D) To discover the key techniques in macro photography,
photographers need to work with different ranges of
light and position in a garden and notice the changes
in the background caused by slight moves.

D) Although the biological nature of disease does not
change from one culture to another, there is clear
evidence that how diseases are understood varies
dramatically.

E) To discover the key techniques of macro photography,
photographers should work with light and position in a
garden and notice how the background changes with
slight moves.

E) There is clear evidence suggesting that the biological
nature of disease does not change, but how diseases
are understood varies to a great extent from one
culture to another.

10

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English

42. Akademik başarısızlığın önlenmesi ciddi bir konudur
çünkü akademik başarısızlığa uğrayan çocuklar
yaşamları boyunca önemli sosyal ve ekonomik
problemler yaşarlar.
A) It is important that academic failure is prevented since
children who fail academically are likely to suffer from
significant social and economic problems throughout
their lives.
B) Should academic failure not be avoided, which is a
serious subject, children who fail academically face
important social and economic problems throughout
their lives.
C) Prevention of academic failure is a serious subject
because children who fail academically experience
significant social and economic problems
throughout their lives.
D) As a subject, prevention of academic failure is serious
because children who fail at school go through
significant social and economic problems
throughout their lives.
E) What makes prevention of academic failure a serious
subject is that children who fail academically have
significant social and economic problems throughout
their lives.

11

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English
43-46: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

44. Why do online multiplayer games tend to be more
addictive than others?
A) They display more violence than other games.

Video games are likely to affect the way we behave in a
number of ways. For instance, there is concern about
whether violence in games makes young people more
violent. This is controversial even within the scientific
community. Numerous studies about the effects of
games on the brain have come up with conflicting
results. A team of scientists gathered all scientific
articles to date and compared results. In total they
found 116 experiments, the first from the 1980s. Many
compared regular video game players with people who
had never played. Changes in the brain were measured
using techniques which detect whether brain regions
increase or reduce in size and how these changes
affect the brain’s activity. The study found that the
clearest negative impact is the risk of addiction, which
could affect other brain functions. Games that heavily
rely on online multiplayer modes are the most
associated with addiction, due to social interactions
being more rewarding than just playing against the
computer. However, since video games usually display
increasing levels of difficulty, they are continually
challenging our skills, making the brain perform at 100%
of its capacity, resulting in effective cognitive training.
Video games also contribute to the proper functioning of
the brain, and can even improve it.

B) They lead to more conflicting behaviours.
C) They help some regions of the brain get bigger.
D) They involve communication between players.
E) They contribute more to the functioning of the brain.

45. Which of the following questions cannot be
answered according to the passage?
A) Is there a way to avoid the risk of addiction to video
games?
B) Is there any research on the effects of video games on
the brain?
C) Can video games help people socialise with others?
D) Can video games better brain functioning?
E) Are there any disadvantages associated with video
games?

43. There is a controversy about video games even
among scientists because ----.
A) not many scientists have developed the suitable
research design to investigate the issue
B) video games affect our brains in a number of ways
46. What is the author’s attitude towards video games?

C) scientists are still waiting for convincing findings from
clinical testing

A) Sarcastic

D) different studies have produced contradictory findings

B) Indifferent

D) Objective

C) Sceptical
E) Pessimistic

E) there are not many changes in the brains of video
game players

12

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English
47-50: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

48. According to the passage, in order to estimate crop
production losses, the new research ----.
A) analysed alternate models using Obama’s Clean
Power Plan as a point of reference

Nearly 20 US states have started to implement former
president Barack Obama’s Clean Power Plan, which
places limits on carbon dioxide emissions from power
plants in an effort to reduce the impacts of climate
change. The plan has been in legal limbo for the past
year, yet scientists have now calculated another
outcome of the policy: harm to crop yields if the plan is
stopped. Along with carbon pollution, coal-fired power
plants spew pollutants that form smog, which was
already known to contribute to increased rates of
asthma and premature deaths. The new research
estimates the extent to which smog, under air-pollution
policies in place before the Clean Power Plan, would
limit production in 2020 of four major crops: corn, cotton,
potatoes, and soybeans. Led by environmental engineer
Shannon Capps, the research team also estimated the
extent to which those crop production losses would
shrink under three nationwide counter scenarios. One
improved the efficiency of individual power plants.
Another modelled a policy similar to the Obama plan,
setting state carbon dioxide emission goals for the
electricity sector. And the third established a tax on
carbon emissions, under which emissions decreased
the most. But the greatest drop in smog-forming
pollutants – and the greatest gains in crop yields – came
from policies such as the Clean Power Plan.

B) relied upon asthma and premature death statistics
C) targeted all crops including corn, cotton, potatoes, and
soybeans
D) adopted models that were different from the Clean
Power Plan
E) excluded models based on policies in place before the
Clean Power Plan

49. What is the main idea of the passage?
A) There is no difference between the Obama plan and
other similar plans in terms of reducing emissions.
B) Crop production will continue to shrink under all three
plans proposed by the researchers.
C) Reducing carbon dioxide emissions from power plants
will not necessarily increase crop production.
D) Policies like the Clean Power Plan are needed to
reduce smog rates and increase crop yields.

47. Which of the following is true about crop production
according to the passage?

E) Improving the efficiency of power plants is necessary
to control crop production losses.

A) The losses are insignificant since only four crops are
affected.
B) Smog has no significant effect on crop production in
the US.
50. Which of the following would be the best title for the
passage?

C) If coal-fired power plant efficiency is improved, crop
yields will increase dramatically.

A) The Importance of the Clean Power Plan

D) Coal-fired power plants produce smog, thereby
negatively impacting crop yields.

B) Three Plans for Crop Production

E) The losses will continue at the same pace even after
implementing the Clean Power Plan.

C) Pollution from Power Plants
D) Smog: How Harmful Can It Be?
E) Why is the Obama Plan in Legal Limbo?

13

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English
51-54: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

52. According to the passage, Jeffrey Davies ----.
A) ended up working on the neurogenesis process by
chance when he was working on Parkinson’s disease

Fasting could boost your brainpower. A stomach
hormone that stimulates appetite seems to promote the
growth of new brain cells and protect them from the
effects of ageing ─ and may explain why some people
say that fasting makes them feel sharper. Ghrelin is
known as the hunger hormone, as it is made by the
stomach when it gets empty. If we go a few hours
without food, its levels rise in our blood. But there is also
evidence that ghrelin can enhance cognition. Animals
fed reduced-calorie diets have better mental abilities.
Injecting ghrelin into mice improves their performance in
learning and memory tests, and seems to boost the
number of connections in their brains. Now Jeffrey
Davies at Swansea University, UK, and his team have
found further evidence that ghrelin can stimulate brain
cells to divide and multiply, a process called
neurogenesis. When they added the hormone to mouse
brain cells grown in a dish, it switched on a gene
known to trigger neurogenesis. ‘’If the same happens in
animals, this could be how ghrelin affects memory,’’
says Davies, whose work was presented at the British
Neuroscience Association conference in 2017. The work
may have implications for treating neurodegenerative
conditions. Davies’s team have found that ghrelin, or
chemicals that act the same way, could help treat some
conditions like Parkinson’s disease.

B) discovered that ghrelin contributes to neurogenesis,
which might be the reason why it improves memory
C) presented his study at the British Neuroscience
Association conference in order to increase
awareness of Parkinson’s disease
D) thinks that more research on ghrelin is needed in
order to understand its effects on Parkinson’s disease
E) believes that ghrelin affects memory in mice differently
from humans

53. The underlined phrase in the passage ‘switched on’
is closest in meaning to ----.
A) protected

B) covered

C) maintained

D) transferred
E) activated

51. According to the passage, the hormone ghrelin ----.
A) is called the hunger hormone because it prevents one
from feeling hungry for long hours

54. What is the primary purpose of the author?

B) is produced by the body in higher amounts when there
are more brain cell connections in the brain

A) To describe how the neurogenesis process takes
place in human brain

C) slows down the neurogenesis process when produced
in considerably low amounts

B) To highlight that the brain can gain substantial benefits
from increased levels of ghrelin

D) plays a role in a number of functions from the
production of new brain cells to enhanced mental
abilities

C) To discuss whether ghrelin could be used as a
treatment for Parkinson’s disease

E) affects our appetite in a negative way and causes us
to consume more food than we actually need

D) To emphasise the importance of Davies’s study on
mice and their mental abilities
E) To draw particular attention to the 2017 conference
held by the British Neuroscience Association

14

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English
55-58: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

56. What could be concluded from the passage about
first impressions?
A) First impressions about people hardly ever change,
positively or negatively, even with lots of effort.

First impressions can affect your life course – how you
manage job interviews, whether you gain friends at
social gatherings, etc. A study by Harvard psychologist
Mahzarin Banaji showed that first impressions can strike
us even after we think we have abandoned them. Still,
however quickly and unintentionally these impressions
form themselves in us, we are not mindless robots.
“People have some flexibility,” says psychologist
Melissa Ferguson from Cornell University, who is
interested in how people form, and change, their
impressions of others. She has a guy named Bob
to thank for her findings. For her studies, Ferguson
introduces test subjects to a fictional character named
Bob. Sometimes Bob is portrayed as good, with a list of
a hundred nice behaviours. When subjects find out he is
convicted of an immoral act involving a child, the good
impression of Bob completely flips. Other times, Bob
does a hundred things making study subjects see him
as a moderately nasty guy. Then it is revealed that Bob
donated a kidney to a stranger. Here too, Ferguson's
subjects adjusted their opinion; they thought better of
him, but still did not think well of him. “They did not flip,”
she says. “A single piece of extremely negative
information undoes a positive first impression, but it
does not work the same way in the opposite direction.
It takes more to overcome a negative first impression.”

B) We do not have any control over our first impressions
and cannot change them later.
C) The effects of positive first impressions last much
longer than those of negative first impressions.
D) People may sometimes act like mindless robots when
it comes to first impressions.
E) We can change our first impressions of others later
although they are formed unintentionally.

57. What can be concluded from the study conducted
by Ferguson?
A) Positive information changes the negative first
impressions of people to a great extent even though
it is about something trivial.
B) Positive first impressions about someone are more
likely to turn into negative opinions when a bit of
negative information is provided.
C) Negative first impressions are more likely to change
quickly and easily than positive first impressions.

55. It is understood from the passage that first
impressions ----.

D) When nasty people do something really good, people
adopt a positive attitude towards them, ignoring their
unpleasant background.

A) do not shape our lives profoundly when formed quickly
and unintentionally

E) People tend to have positive first impressions about
others most of the time, but later they may change
their mind.

B) might not be as easy to get rid of as we may think
C) may be misleading in job interviews or at social
gatherings
D) lose their effectiveness after a certain amount of time
has passed

58. Which could be the best title for this passage?

E) have such a strong impact on our lives that it is
impossible to change them

A) The Lack of Control over First Impressions
B) How to Ward Off Negative First Impressions
C) Different Perspectives on First Impressions
D) Constructing and Adjusting First Impressions
E) Forming Reliable First Impressions

15

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English
59-62: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

60. It can be understood from the passage that Spanish
and Portuguese explorers ----.
A) were initially very open to providing Piri Reis with
information

Dating from 1513, a map drawn by Turkish mariner Piri
Reis is one of the earliest cartographic depictions of the
Americas. Historians have long been fascinated by
many aspects of his map, such as its level of accuracy.
The route to the New World, the Americas, was at first a
secret closely guarded by the Spanish and Portuguese
navigators who were exploring the Atlantic – for
example, Christopher Columbus, who was working for
the Spanish monarchy. Reis surprisingly placed the New
World on the correct longitudinal meridian in relation to
the African continent. His was the earliest known map to
do so. However, similar to other maps of the time, the
scale of this map is inconsistent, with the Americas
drawn much larger than Africa or Asia. Piri Reis wrote
on the map itself that he had consulted other maps in
Arabic, including some classical sources. He also
referred to four contemporary Portuguese maps, as well
as one by Columbus. The mystery remains, however, as
to how Piri Reis gained access to Columbus’s
discoveries.

B) wanted to ensure that no others could find their way to
the Americas
C) were the only ones exploring the Atlantic
D) were in direct competition with Christopher Columbus
E) worked very closely with monarchies to establish the
New World

61. The most surprising aspect of Piri Reis’s map is that
----.
A) it was the most complete map of the time
B) the scale was consistent with the previous ones
C) the locations of Africa and Asia were correctly noted

59. It can be understood from the passage that Piri
Reis’s map ----.

D) his placement of the New World was accurate

A) was the first one to include depictions of the Americas

E) it was the first to include longitudinal meridians

B) was preceded by others that include Africa
C) was not the only map showing the Americas
D) is the first example of a marine map
62. Which of the following is true about Piri Reis and his
map?

E) is more accurate than once believed

A) The Americas appeared much larger than Africa and
Asia on Piri Reis's map because he basically relied
upon Arabic maps.
B) It was impossible that he could have had the same
knowledge as Christopher Columbus.
C) There is some doubt about how Piri Reis made use
of the discoveries of previous explorers and their
maps.
D) Due to the similarity in scale inconsistencies, it is often
considered that Piri Reis essentially copied his
classical sources.
E) How Piri Reis managed to learn about the discoveries
of Columbus is still unknown today.

16

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English

63-67: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the dialogue.

64. Journalist:
 So, your company has set up a system that offers
online clinical-counselling, and you’re the chief
operating officer. Do you think e-therapy is more
effective for certain people?

63. Robert:
 You've persuaded me to volunteer for that organ
donation team, but I can’t figure out what exactly
we’re supposed to do.

Psychologist:
 Of course, for any therapy to be effective, it has to
meet the individual needs of patients. E-therapy
may appeal to people looking for convenience,
flexibility and privacy, in particular. College
students and workers with not much time usually
opt for our online services.

Lee:
 The team is trying to encourage families to
consider how they would feel about donation if
they needed an organ transplant when not enough
people give their consent.

Journalist:
 ----

Robert:
 ----

Psychologist:
 People have a tendency to think that because
you’re using an online service, it must be
impersonal and can’t have the same effect.
But it’s not true. The difference in results between
e-therapy and a face-to-face one is quite minimal.

Lee:
 Exactly. Surveys show that 30% of people have
never discussed organ donation with their
friends and relatives.
A) So, as far as I understand, the team is basically trying
to raise people’s awareness about the issue.

A) How do you talk tech-challenged people into
e-therapy?

B) I see. People are aware of the importance of organ
transplantation but most are unwilling to be donors.

B) Why do you think e-therapy will overtake face-to-face
therapy?

C) OK, so non-profit organisations try to ensure that the
ethical considerations are understood.

C) What is the biggest myth about e-therapy?

D) Yeah, everybody knows that organ transplantation is
a must for those who desperately need organs.

D) How does an e-therapy session work?
E) How does e-therapy help people with a serious mental
illness?

E) I think more and more people are now well-informed
about the challenges of the procedure.

17

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English

65. Richard:
 I saw a video the other day on the Internet about a
polyglot.

66. Sarah:
 Recently, I’ve read a magazine article, and it says
over the first four years of marriage, spouses
report a gradual increase in their willingness to
forgive each other.

Lucy:
 A polyglot? What’s that?

Francis:
 So, it means they learn to forgive each other as
they spend more time together.

Richard:
 A polyglot is a person who speaks several
different languages. The person in the video I saw
speaks eight languages including Portuguese and
Chinese.

Sarah:
 ----

Lucy:
 ----

Francis:
 What do you mean?

Richard:
 There are some methods used. For example,
allocating a few hours a day for a language until
mastering it, including intense listening and
speaking activities.

Sarah:
 The article says forgiving benefits both partners
only if the forgiven partner is agreeable and
cooperative. If not, he or she tends to offend
again.

A) Why aren’t there more people who can speak many
languages like this?

A) I think anyone who is in a close relationship will, at
some point, have to decide whether or not to forgive.

B) What’s the minimum number of languages needed to
describe someone as a polyglot?

B) Well, I believe the most important thing in relations is
mutual trust. If you have it, you don’t experience such
forgiveness problems.

C) Do you think he’s completely fluent in all eight of those
languages?

C) It’s also possible that even if someone wants to
forgive, they might not think that the wrongdoer or
offender really deserves it.

D) How do you think such people manage to learn so
many languages?

D) One needs to be cautious, though, as forgiveness
could backfire, depending on the offending partner’s
personality.

E) How many more languages do you think he can add to
his repertoire?

E) Maybe the reason is that being exposed to situations
where forgiveness is required helps one improve that
skill.

18

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English

68-71: For these questions, choose the best
rephrased form of the given sentence.

67. Stacy:
 I’m so bored with my never-ending to-do list.
But I can’t say I’ve been able to cross a single
item off the list so far.

68. Mentally healthy adults have a right to refuse
medical intervention even if this is likely to result in
fatal consequences.

Carole:
 Maybe you should stop procrastinating and just
start working on your list.

A) No matter how deadly the results of medical
intervention are, mentally healthy adults are choosing
to reject it.

Stacy:
 What do you mean?

B) If they are mentally healthy, adults could reject
medical intervention without considering whether or
not such an intervention could lead to some tragic
outcomes.

Carole:
 ---Stacy:
 I think you’re right, finding another person with
the same aspirations will help me take action.

C) Regardless of possible deadly results of rejecting
medical intervention, adults who are mentally healthy
have an entitlement to do it.

A) I don’t get why you’ve been feeling so desperate about
your life plans. You’re one of the most ambitious and
motivated people I know.

D) It is a right for mentally healthy adults to oppose
medical intervention even though they may be aware
of possible deadly results.

B) Well, I’ve been seeing a psychologist to deal with the
same type of issue. Maybe that’s something you can
look into as well.

E) It is possible for mentally healthy adults to consider
refusing medical intervention when they are aware of
serious implications of this.

C) Life seems to be getting busier for us modern working
women. Maybe keeping a diary of goals you’ve
achieved will help you stay focused.
D) Maybe one way to deal with your problem is just
making a habit out of it. I mean you should make a
habit of taking action to fulfil your plans.
E) You don’t have to keep waiting for the perfect moment.
Plus sharing your goals and plans with someone else
could be a good idea.

19

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English

69. While some people believe that video games are a
waste of time, certain games can be a good vehicle
for training specific skills, such as enhancing
short-term memory, agility or reaction time.

70. Since December 2014, the Breathe Project in the
US has been making use of high definition cameras
that let residents monitor the air pollution in their
cities online.

A) Although some people are convinced that video
games are useful in teaching specific skills like
improving short-term memory, agility or reaction time,
some of them are futile activities, according to some
others.

A) US residents have been contributing to the Breathe
Project since December 2014 by monitoring the air
pollution in their cities with online use of high definition
cameras.
B) In the US, air pollution has been monitored online by
the Breathe Project with high definition cameras since
December 2014 in order to inform residents about the
rates in their cities.

B) Certain video games can be good means for
practising some specific skills like improving
short-term memory, agility or reaction time, but there
are some people who believe that video games are of
no use.

C) Residents can reduce air pollution in their cities by
using online high definition cameras of the Breathe
Project, which was launched by the US in December
2014.

C) Some people assume that video games are
time-consuming, although they know that certain video
games are efficient tools in teaching specific skills like
improving short-term memory, agility or reaction time.

D) High definition cameras used by the Breathe Project in
the US since December 2014 help residents combat
air pollution in their cities through online monitoring.

D) Video games are thought to be time-consuming;
however, they may be beneficial for some people
practising certain skills like improving short-term
memory, agility or reaction time.

E) High definition cameras that have been utilised by the
Breathe Project in the US since December 2014
enable residents to monitor the air pollution in their
cities online.

E) There are some people who presume that video
games are beneficial in specific skills like improving
short-term memory, agility or reaction time; however,
those games could be a waste of time indeed.

20

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English
72-75: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the missing part of the
passage.

71. The growing awareness of the impact of job stress
is best illustrated by the sheer increase in the
volume of job stress research in recent years.
A) The past few years have witnessed a dramatic rise in
the amount of job stress research, which best
demonstrates the increasing recognition of the impact
of job stress.

72. According to a study in Usenge, Kenya, near the
town of Kisimu, most families in the village do not
value formal Western schooling. There is no reason
they should, as their children will for the most part
spend their lives farming or engaged in other
occupations that make little or no use of Western
schooling. These families emphasise teaching their
children the indigenous, informal knowledge that
will lead to successful adaptation in the
environments in which they will really live. ---- They
hope that their children may be able to leave the
village and to go to a university. These families tend
to emphasise the value of Western education and to
devalue indigenous informal knowledge. Thus, the
families typically value and emphasise one or the
other kind of knowledge, but not both.

B) The influence of job stress has increased recently,
which is best shown by the awareness that has been
substantially enhanced by the growth in the amount
of job stress research.
C) People are becoming increasingly aware of the
volume of job stress research, which has been best
illustrated by the recent increase in the influence of job
stress.
D) Lately, there has been more research in the field of job
stress, which means that it may lead to a higher level
of consciousness about the influence of job stress.

A) At the same time, there are some, perhaps not many,
families in the village that have different expectations
for their children.

E) Although there has been a considerable increase in
the number of studies on job stress recently, there is
still a need for greater understanding of the influence
of job stress.

B) They believe that investing a lot of time in the
development of academic skills needed for school
success is a poor investment.
C) Furthermore, they see the learning of informal
knowledge as relevant to their everyday adaptation as
a better use of their time.
D) Some wealthy and educated parents living in the
village share the same opinion with such families and
do not favour formal Western schooling.
E) In formal Western schooling, however, children
typically study a variety of subjects, including maths,
foreign languages, etc., from an early age.

21

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English

73. As children move into adolesence, they seek much
more autonomy. At this stage, parents must achieve
a delicate balance between granting autonomy and
making sure their children do not get into situations
where problematic or even dangerous behaviour
could occur. ---- This makes it likely that their
children will be involved with other teens who are
enthusiastic about school and not into risk-taking.

74. Medieval Islam became the principal heir to ancient
Greek science, and Islamic civilisation remained the
world leader in virtually every field of science
between 800-1300 AD. The sheer level of scientific
activity underlines this point, as the number of
Islamic scientists during the four centuries after the
Prophet matched the number of Greek scientists
during the four centuries following Thales. Islamic
scientists established the first truly international
scientific community, stretching from Iberia to
Central Asia. ---- A moment’s thought, however,
shows how unreasonable it is to evaluate the history
of Islamic science only or even largely as a link to
European science, or even to subsume Islamic
science into the ‘Western tradition’. Medieval Islam
and its science must be judged on their own terms,
and those terms are as much Eastern as Western.
A) Early Islamic rulers encouraged the mastery of foreign
cultural traditions, including notably Greek philosophy
and science.

A) However, some parents may find it difficult to develop
clear rules to ensure the teenager engages in
appropriate activities when not under adult
supervision.
B) It could be helpul if parents establish effective
communication with their children with regard to what
they are doing each day and foster their academic
interests.
C) Children who are not regularly monitored by their
parents are more likely to adopt destructive habits,
suffer from depression, and obtain poor grades.
D) The most important issues to consider are the time
teens need to be home, where they can go when they
are out, and whom they can be with.

B) Yet, medieval Islamic science is sometimes dismissed
as a conduit passively transmitting ancient Greek
science to the European Middle Ages.

E) On the contrary, offering numerous opportunities for
young people to play a greater role in civic life and
governance is another way to prevent problems.

C) Islam was and is based on literacy and the holy book
of the Quran, and contrary to the popular view, Islam
showed itself tolerant toward others.
D) The result was another hybrid society, the cultural
‘Hellenisation’ of Islam and its typically bureaucratised
institutions.
E) The institutional aspects of Islamic science are only
beginning to be studied with scholarly rigour, and
nothing like a full historical survey exists for the Islamic
case.

22

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English

76-80: For these questions, choose the irrelevant
sentence in the passage.

75. Even though there are a number of teaching
approaches, the literature indicates that teachers
have two primary orientations to teaching: an
orientation toward conveying knowledge and an
orientation toward facilitating learning. ---- On the
other hand, if the teacher wants to maximise
students’ understanding, he or she will probably
focus on the integration and elaboration of
information in ways that could facilitate meaningful
learning and critical thinking.

76. (I) In ancient time-measurement systems, including
those of both Egypt and China, daylight and night-time
were each given 12 hours. (II) This was convenient for
use with sundials, which are known from Egypt as early
as 1500 BC, although telling the time 'by the Sun'
probably predates the first humans. (III) However,
because the length of daylight and night-time varies with
the season, so did the length of the sundials. (IV) When
water clocks came into use, shortly after them, a conflict
between the two forms of measurement became
apparent. (V) In the 8th century AD, the Chinese began
to add primitive but a bit more sophisticated equipment
to water clocks.

A) Interestingly, teachers’ approaches to teaching are
also mediated by situational and contextual factors in
addition to a number of other factors.
B) Hence, the various characteristics of students in these
classrooms will influence the approach to teaching as
well as its outcomes.

A) I

C) For example, a teacher whose goal of teaching is to
transmit and increase knowledge will likely focus on
the content and provide structured learning
experiences.
D) Moreover, it is generally known that the values and
beliefs of teachers influence their perceptions and
judgements and also affect their behaviour in the
classroom.

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V

77. (I) Early world history focuses on agricultural
civilisations, but it must also pay attention to regions that
developed different kinds of economies and different
organisational structures. (II) The development of
agriculture was a radical change in humans' way of
life. (III) By providing a dependable source of food, it
allowed people to live in larger groups. (IV) Later on,
toolmaking technology advanced with the discovery of
metalworking, which in turn further increased
agricultural production. (V) Increased production freed
some members of the society to perform other kinds of
work and this in turn encouraged a further series of
organisational changes we call civilisation.

E) Furthermore, this teacher might believe that students
should be rewarded for good work and penalised for
lack of effort and poor work.

A) I

23

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V

Go on to the next page.

2018-YDS Fall/English

78. (I) Most non-marine food chains depend on insects.
(II) Almost all birds eat insects, and even those that eat
seeds as adults still feed insects to their young.
(III) If there were no longer any insects, we would not
need the 430,000 tonnes of insecticides that are
sprayed onto crops every year. (IV) Insects also break
down plant matter and help recycle nutrients into the
soil. (V) Without any insects at all, most bird and
amphibian species would be extinct in two months.
A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

80. (I) Martin Luther King Jr. was born in 1929 and grew up
in the Deep South, a region of America with a history
scarred by slavery and racial segregation. (II) An
intelligent and deeply religious man, he attended college
at the early age of 15 and went on to study theology,
receiving his doctorate in 1955. (III) King was inspired by
early civil right leaders, such as Howard Thurman, who
knew his father and was a trusted mentor. (IV) In 1963,
King led the ‘March on Washington’, a huge event
where thousands gathered on the National Mall to hear
him speak. (V) He also looked up to Mahatma Gandhi,
and was to adopt his teachings of non-violent resistance
in his own struggle for equality in the US.

E) V

A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V

79. (I) In its earlier days, people treated the experience of
watching television rather like that of the cinema, but in
many ways, television is nothing like cinema. (II) While
film is designed to be a public event and its
characteristic mode is a complete performance,
television is a procession of segments arranged as a
series and watched privately or domestically.
(III) Communal watching of programmes provides
opportunities for displays of family warmth and affection,
so television watching may promote strong emotional
connections among families and friends. (IV) Contrary
to the intense quality of film that receives sustained
attention from the audience, television watching is more
casual and episodic. (V) Another obvious distinction is
that films typically start with a disordered narrative and
move through a series of ups and downs to a resolution,
but television presents itself as a set of repeated
segments which do not always form a unity of any kind.
A) I
B) II
C) III
D) IV
E) V