1-6: For these questions, choose the best word or
expression to fill the space.

1. Like the rest of the animal kingdom, mammals need
food for energy and the ---- of bodily processes such
as growth and reproduction.
A) suspension

B) deterioration

C) maintenance

D) elaboration

3. Although empirical studies into the brain’s left and
right hemispheric participation in language
acquisition are ---- and differ from each other,
some observational studies indicate that adults
might benefit from right-brain-oriented activities in
the foreign language classroom.
A) unavailable
B) indispensible
C) indestructible

E) unprecedented

E) persistence

2. With rapid advancements in technology, there
are new ----, already seen in countries such as
Myanmar and Sri Lanka where social media apps
have been instrumental in spreading fake news and
violence.
A) measures

B) adjustments

C) incentives

D) threats

D) inconclusive

4. The foundations of international law as it is
understood today lie ---- in the development of
Western culture and political organisation.
A) eligibly

B) instantly

C) adequately

D) firmly
E) convertibly

E) obligations

5. There is a link between sunlight and the chemical
serotonin, which ---- our mood and is important in
reducing anxiety disorders.
A) initiates

B) detects

C) reveals

D) hinders
E) boosts

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English

6. Parkinson’s disease is a movement disorder that
---- the death of neurons producing dopamine, a
neurochemical that dispatches messages to parts of
the brain that control motor skills and coordination.
A) takes over

B) stems from

C) makes up

D) pins down
E) gets through

8. As two-thirds of homes in the US owned radio
receivers by the end of the 1920s, people no longer
---- to a concert, play, or sporting event to be
entertained; instead, they ---- many forms of
entertainment from the comfort of their homes.
A) should have gone / must have enjoyed
B) may go / were able to enjoy
C) used to go / may have enjoyed
D) had to go / could enjoy
E) would go / ought to have enjoyed

7-16: For these questions, choose the best
word(s) or expression(s) to fill the space(s).

7. In its early stage of development, ecotourism ---- as
a completely new concept; however, today, it ---- a
significant portion of the tourism industry in
general.
A) was going to be regarded / is becoming

9. Humanity’s extraordinary success ---- due to our
ingenuity in devising cultural means ---- our physical
limitations.
A) has been / to overcome

B) had been regarded / will become

B) was / having overcome

C) was being regarded / is going to become

C) had been / overcoming

D) was regarded / has become

D) is / overcome

E) has been regarded / becomes

E) will be / to have overcome

10. The geographical spread of English is unique ---- the
languages of the world, and it is an official
language in about 50 countries, where it is used in
addition to the indigenous first languages ---- a
variety of public and personal functions.
A) from / at

B) to / on

C) through / with

D) among / for

E) about / in

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English

11. Weather is defined as the state of the atmosphere
---- a given location and ---- a relatively short period
of time.
A) along / on

B) towards / in

C) at / over

D) from / against
E) for / about

14. To psychology professionals, the name Anne
Anastasi is synonymous with psychometrics, ---- it
was she who pioneered understanding how
psychological traits are influenced, developed, and
measured.
A) so

B) even if

C) while

D) yet
E) as

12. Renaissance art evolved from a common set of
principles, ---- it took many directions and changed
considerably in the following centuries.
A) instead

B) provided that

C) but

D) for
E) so

15. Music is a very small word to encompass something
that takes ---- many forms ---- there are cultural and
subcultural identities.
A) either / or

B) both / and

C) as / as

D) such / that
E) not only / but also

13. ---- palaeontologists still like to argue about what
role the asteroid played in the dinosaur extinction,
there really is not much of a mystery left.
A) Once

B) In case

C) Given that

D) Although
E) As

16. Although genetically modified seed is more
expensive than conventional equivalents, the extra
cost can be seen as an insurance policy against
crop losses ---- weeds or pests.
A) contrary to

B) due to

C) in terms of

D) despite
E) along with

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English
17-21: For these questions, choose the best
word or expression to fill the spaces in the
passage.
Today the deadly poliomyelitis virus is only endemic to
four countries – Afghanistan, India, Nigeria, and
Pakistan. This is (17)---- the groundbreaking research
undertaken by doctor and biologist Jonas Salk. In 1947,
at the University of Pittsburgh, Salk combined his work
on the influenza vaccine with his search for a vaccine to
protect (18)---- poliomyelitis. The virus was deadly in 5 to
10 percent of cases where patients became paralysed,
and (19)---- were unable to breathe. Medical opinion at
the time held that only a live virus (20)---- total immunity,
but Salk disproved this. In 1952 he used formaldehyde,
a gas with a strong smell, to inactivate the poliomyelitis
virus and developed a vaccine still capable of triggering
an immune response in a host. Initially tested on
monkeys, then human patients, Salk’s success (21)---him to test it on himself, his family, his staff, and other
volunteers.

19.
A) even so

B) thus

C) conversely

D) instead
E) otherwise

20.
A) had to prompt

B) would have prompted

C) must have prompted

D) should have prompted

E) could prompt

17.
A) rather than

B) such as

C) thanks to

D) except for
21.

E) along with

A) oppressed

B) neglected

C) prohibited

D) convinced
E) deterred

18.
A) on

B) with

C) for

D) over
E) against

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English
22-26: For these questions, choose the best
word or expression to fill the spaces in the
passage.
The snake is one of the most emblematic creatures in
human mythology, and is perceived to represent both
wisdom and evil. Indian mythology considers snakes to
be the ‘bringers of life’, (22)---- the Bible tells the story of
a snake as the first deceiver. Snakes’ most (23)---characteristic is their lack of limbs, so they move with a
slithering motion. As they hunt other animals, they
(24)---- a keen sense of smell and the ability to sense
vibrations and temperature variations. To kill their prey,
venomous snakes use their long and sharp teeth to
inject a paralysing or deadly nerve venom (25)---- their
specialised salivary glands, where the venom is stored.
They can unhinge their jaws to swallow large prey.
(26)---- growing continuously, snakes shed their skin by
detaching the outermost layer.

24.
A) have developed

B) were developing

C) had developed

D) would develop

E) are developing

25.
A) for

B) over

C) from

D) on
E) to

22.
A) once

B) while

C) otherwise

D) because
E) therefore

26.
A) Except for

B) Similar to

C) With the help of

D) In spite of

E) As a result of

23.
A) sceptical

B) tolerable

C) variable

D) prominent
E) misleading

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English

27-36: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the given sentence.

27. Even though some studies suggest that exposure to
the blue light emitted by digital devices could be a
risk factor for developing certain eye conditions, ----.
A) it has also been revealed that long hours of screen
time may trigger headaches
B) most parents worry that digital devices can ruin their
children’s eyesight
C) many scientists think that the evidence to support this
claim is not very strong
D) there are other eye issues that our screens can bring
on, such as dry or tired eyes

29. ----, the diseases which were also brought posed
serious challenges to their way of life.
A) Given that the Native Americans were initially
hospitable to the European settlers
B) Although the Native Americans benefited from access
to new technology and trade came with the early
European settlers
C) Since the Native Americans had customs and culture
which were totally different from those of the European
immigrants
D) Because the Native Americans were aware of the
early settlers’ thirst for land and wealth
E) Even though the Native Americans and European
immigrants had difficulties in communication due to
language problems

E) some companies are marketing special glasses that
protect our eyes from the blue light

30. Although many people equate creativity with
intelligence, ----.
28. While Willis Carrier, who was among the most
relentless researchers and promoters of air
conditioning, is known as the father of air
conditioning, ----.
A) the range of processes and products involved in air
conditioning cannot be attributed to a single person
B) for centuries, ice and water had been manipulated to
cool air circulating in theatres, hospitals, and factories
C) air conditioning began to be marketed as a comfort
device for domestic consumption during the 1930s
D) the development of industrial air conditioning
dominated the newly created industry at the beginning
of the 20th century

A) creativity is a critical aspect of a person’s life, starting
from inside the womb onward through adulthood
B) a child’s creativity can be either strongly encouraged
or discouraged by early experiences at home
C) the two terms are not synonymous, and it is not
necessary to have a genius-level IQ to be creative
D) standard intelligence tests measure convergent
thinking, which is the ability to come up with a single
correct answer
E) creative individuals tend to share certain
characteristics, including a tendency to be more
impulsive or spontaneous

E) technologies were being developed in the refrigeration
industry contemporaneously with Carrier’s work in
humidification

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English

31. Since virtually all cultures on earth have some form
of fortune-telling, ----.

33. The literature on treatment for learning disabilities
primarily discusses school-based treatments, ----.

A) most people are no longer curious about what their
future will bring to them

A) though individuals with learning disabilities experience
challenges beyond such settings

B) it is an incomprehensible temptation to get information
about what awaits us in the future

B) because such endeavours do not guarantee that a
specific treatment will be effective

C) it would be somewhat undesirable for a person to
know what is ahead in the future

C) so treatments without widespread research support
may not turn out to be successful

D) the desire to predict what will happen in the future can
be a permanent feature of the human mind

D) if we treat individuals with learning disabilities through
methods they prefer

E) it is considered to be a science by some, whereas
others claim that it is nothing more than speculation

E) while defining learning disabilities is as important as
conducting research on treatments

32. Most people have experienced foodborne illness ----.
A) given that those working in the field of food safety are
most concerned about microbial foodborne illness
B) because ensuring the safety of food is a shared
responsibility among producers, industry, government,
and consumers
C) although current estimates of foodborne illness in the
United States are 325,000 hospitalisations, and
around 5,000 deaths per year
D) even though they might not recognise it as such,
instead blaming it on the stomach flu or a 24-hour bug
E) when a person consciously thinks about food safety
before, during or after eating a meal

34. In our rapidly changing world, parents’ skills may
easily become obsolete, ----.
A) though children sometimes look to their peers rather
than their parents for guidance and approval
B) as family-centred learning plays a key role in
equipping children with social, cultural and moral
values
C) while they might have difficulty in transmitting their
accumulated knowledge to their children
D) but their children’s taste in diet, music, clothes and
entertainment can significantly differ from their own
taste
E) so they could have fewer opportunities for direct
influence over their children’s development

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English

35. Hydroelectricity plants pose several threats to the
environment ----.
A) while flooding is an important indicator for the
environmental impact they cause
B) even though the proliferation of mosquitoes may
disturb those living close to them
C) because they could lead to the extinction of endemic
species and block fish migration
D) although the loss of historical and archaeological
heritage is a big concern
E) so that they help communities harness water
resources for energy generation

37-42: For these questions, choose the most
accurate Turkish translation of the sentences in
English, and the most accurate English translation
of the sentences in Turkish.
37. The Morse code, which is a milestone in long-range
communication, was designed so that telegraph
operators could communicate via electrical signals.
A) Uzun mesafe iletişimde bir dönüm noktası olan Mors
alfabesi, telgraf operatörlerinin elektrik sinyalleri
aracılığıyla iletişim kurabilmeleri için tasarlanmıştır.
B) Uzun mesafe iletişimde bir dönüm noktası olsa da
Mors alfabesi ilk olarak telgraf operatörlerinin elektrik
sinyalleri yoluyla haberleşmeleri için tasarlanmıştır.
C) Telgraf operatörlerinin elektrik sinyalleri aracılığıyla
iletişim kurması için tasarlanması, Mors alfabesini
uzun mesafe iletişimde bir dönüm noktası hâline
getirmiştir.
D) Elektrik sinyalleri aracılığıyla telgraf operatörlerinin
iletişim kurması için tasarlanan Mors alfabesi, uzun
mesafe iletişimin dönüm noktasıdır.

36. ----, they rely on each other for optimal performance,
which is a sign of concern for interdependence in
groups.

E) Uzun mesafe iletişimde bir dönüm noktası olan Mors
alfabesinin tasarlanma sebebi, telgraf operatörlerinin
elektrik sinyalleriyle iletişim kurabilmelerini sağlamaktı.

A) Since some individuals are not attracted to group
activities
B) Because it is possible for individuals to do something
they find distasteful
C) Whenever members of a group come together to do a
variety of tasks
D) Although group support depends on members’
willingness to take part
E) Whereas there is mutual interest between group
members within social settings

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English

38. Solving a series of incredibly difficult problems, the
Wright brothers created a revolutionary new
technology that changed the world in a way that
even they could not imagine.
A) Wright kardeşler, kendilerinin bile hayal edemeyeceği
bir biçimde dünyayı değiştiren, devrim niteliğinde yeni
bir teknoloji yaratarak inanılmaz derecede zor bir dizi
problemi çözmüşlerdir.
B) Wright kardeşler, inanılmaz derecede zor bir dizi
problemi çözmüşler ve kendilerinin bile hayal
edemeyeceği bir biçimde dünyayı değiştiren, devrim
niteliğinde yeni bir teknoloji yaratmışlardır.
C) Wright kardeşlerin inanılmaz derecede zor bir dizi
problemi çözerek dünyayı değiştiren, devrim
niteliğinde yeni bir teknoloji yaratmaları, kendilerinin
bile hayal edemeyeceği bir şeydi.
D) Wright kardeşler, inanılmaz derecede zor bir dizi
problemi çözerek kendilerinin bile hayal edemeyeceği
bir şekilde dünyayı değiştiren, devrim niteliğinde yeni
bir teknoloji yaratmışlardır.

39. Every child has an individual learning style, and they
learn information best when it is delivered in a mode
suited to their style.
A) Her çocuk kendine özgü bir öğrenme şekline sahiptir
ve çocuklar bilgiyi en iyi kendi tarzlarına uygun bir
biçimde verildiğinde öğrenir.
B) Kendine özgü öğrenme şekliyle her çocuk, bilgiyi en iyi
kendi tarzına uygun bir biçimde verildiğinde öğrenir.
C) Kendine özgü bir öğrenme şekli olan her çocuk,
öğrenme tarzına uygun verildiği takdirde bilgiyi en iyi
şekilde öğrenir.
D) Her çocuk kendine özgü bir öğrenme şekline sahip
olduğu için bilgiyi en iyi kendi tarzına uygun bir
biçimde verildiğinde öğrenir.
E) Her çocuk kendine özgü bir öğrenme şekline sahiptir
ve onlar için bilgiyi öğrenmenin en iyi yolu, kendi
tarzlarına uygun olanıdır.

E) Wright kardeşlerin kendilerinin bile hayal edemeyeceği
bir biçimde dünyayı değiştiren, devrim niteliğinde yeni
bir teknoloji yaratmak için yaptıkları şey, inanılmaz
derecede zor bir dizi problemi çözmekti.

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English

40. Gen terapisi çoğunlukla ender genetik bozuklukların
tedavisinde faydalıdır; bunun aksine, mevcut
genlerin değiştirilmesini kapsayan gen düzeltme,
çok daha fazla hastalığı tedavi eder.
A) Gene therapy is mainly useful for treating rare genetic
disorders, whereas gene-editing involves altering
existing genes and treating a wider range of
conditions.
B) Gene therapy mainly treats rare genetic disorders;
gene-editing, on the other hand, involves the alteration
of the existing genes, which is useful for treating a
wider range of conditions.
C) Gene therapy is mainly useful for treating rare genetic
disorders; in contrast, gene-editing, which involves
altering existing genes, treats a much wider range of
conditions.
D) Gene therapy is mainly used for the treatment of rare
genetic disorders, but gene-editing can treat a much
wider range of disorders since it involves altering
existing genes.
E) Gene therapy is mainly used to treat rare genetic
disorders while gene-editing, which is the alteration of
the existing genes, is involved in the treatment of a
wider range of conditions.

41. Sağlık okuryazarlığı, bireylerin sağlık konusunda
uygun kararlar vermek için gerekli olan temel sağlık
bilgi ve hizmetlerini elde etme ve anlama
kapasitesine sahip olma derecesi olarak
tanımlanabilir.
A) Health literacy can be defined as the degree to which
individuals have the capacity to obtain and understand
basic health information and services, and to make
necessary health decisions in an appropriate way.
B) Health literacy, which is required to make appropriate
health decisions, can be defined as the degree to
which individuals have the capacity to obtain and
understand basic health information and services.
C) Defined as the degree to which individuals have the
capacity to obtain and understand basic health
information and services, health literacy is necessary
to make appropriate health decisions.
D) Health literacy can be defined as the degree to which
individuals have the capacity to obtain and understand
basic health information and services required to
make appropriate health decisions.
E) The degree to which individuals have the capacity to
obtain and understand basic health information and
services needed to make health decisions
appropriately can be defined as health literacy.

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English

42. Tüm vücut fonksiyonlarımızı senkronize eden iç
saatimiz, ipuçlarını güneş ışığının gündüz-gece
döngüsünden alır ve beyin bu 24 saatlik ritmi
organlarımıza iletmek ve vücudumuza ne zaman
uyumaya ve uyanmaya ihtiyaç duyduğunu bildirmek
için sinirleri ve hormonları kullanır.
A) Our internal clock keeps all our body functions in sync
by taking its cues from the day-night cycle of sunlight,
and the brain transmits this 24-hour rhythm to our
internal organs and tells our body when it needs to
sleep and wake by using nerves and hormones.
B) Our internal clock, which keeps all our body functions
in sync, takes its cues from the day-night cycle of
sunlight, and the brain uses nerves and hormones to
transmit this 24-hour rhythm to our internal organs
and to tell our body when it needs to sleep and wake.
C) Our internal clock, by which all our body functions are
kept in sync, takes its cues from the day-night cycle of
sunlight, and to transmit this 24-hour rhythm to our
internal organs, the brain uses nerves and hormones,
telling our body when it needs to sleep and wake.
D) All our body functions are kept in sync by our internal
clock, which takes its cues from the day-night cycle of
sunlight, and the brain uses nerves and hormones to
transmit this 24-hour rhythm to our internal organs and
tells our body when to sleep and wake.
E) It is our internal clock that keeps all our body functions
in sync by taking cues from the day-night cycle of
sunlight, and the brain uses nerves and hormones
while transmitting this 24-hour rhythm to our internal
organs, and tells our body when to sleep and wake.

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English
43-46: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.
We are born to judge others by how they look: our
brains come hardwired with a specific face-processing
area, and even shortly after birth, babies would rather
look at a human face than anything else. Within their
first year, they become more discerning, and are more
likely to attend to friendly-looking faces than those who
look serious. By the time we reach adulthood, we
develop a great number of stereotypes and become
snap-judgement specialists, jumping to conclusions
about a person’s character and status after seeing his or
her face for just a tenth of a second. And we ignore
considered assessments of others in favour of simple
cognitive shortcuts. For example, we judge a baby-faced
individual as more trustworthy, associate a chiselled jaw
with dominance, or refer to a person with a big nose as
a curious one. Unfair or unethical, it may be, but it
makes good evolutionary sense. Ours is an ultra-social
species, so being able to quickly assess whether
someone is friend or foe and whether they have the
power to help or hurt us is important survival
information. But there is a problem. As psychologist
Alexander Todorov of Princeton University points out,
more often than not, our first impressions are wrong;
that is, relying on our shortcuts may not always produce
good results. It is not clear why, but he suggests that we
meet many more strangers than our prehistoric
ancestors would have, and this may play a role.

43. Which could be inferred from the passage about our
face-based judgements?
A) Babies cannot make judgements concerning human
faces because they are not yet capable of
discriminating between different faces.
B) We begin to make assumptions about a person’s
character or status after we have seen his or her face
several times.

44. One can understand from the passage that our
shortcuts ----.
A) become less helpful in adulthood as we tend to ignore
them
B) are generally accompanied by careful assessments of
others
C) produce more beneficial results than they did in
prehistoric times
D) might be considered morally unacceptable although
they can provide help in our social lives
E) are unreliable because each person can interpret such
traits as trustworthiness differently

45. How does Todorov explain why our shortcuts
sometimes do not provide help?
A) He states that our shortcuts lead us to make very
quick assessments of others, and therefore our first
impressions are usually wrong.
B) He believes that unlike our prehistoric ancestors, we
do not live in a hazardous world, so we do not need to
develop shortcuts to survive.
C) He thinks that we encounter so many faces in our
modern world that our shortcuts may not guide us
accurately.
D) He claims that we live in a more complex world, which
requires us to rely on detailed assessments rather
than simple shortcuts.
E) He puts forward that our shortcuts are mostly based
on people’s facial characteristics, so they cannot
provide precise information.

C) We are innately predisposed to form an idea about a
person just by looking at his or her face.
D) The face-processing area in our brains functions more
effectively during infancy than it does in our adult
years.
E) Regardless of how they look, all human faces can
attract babies’ attention within their first year.

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English

46. Which could be the best title for this passage?
A) Learning Survival Information from Our Ancestors
B) Major Drawbacks of Our Cognitive Shortcuts
C) How to Reject Unethical Stereotypes
D) Transferring Our Cognitive Shortcuts into Adulthood
E) Our Strong Tendency to Stereotype People

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English
47-50: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.
Consumer psychology is the study of the behaviour of
consumers of goods and services regarding their buying
patterns and reactions to advertising and marketing. It
seeks to explain consumer behaviour in two basic ways:
what the consumer wants and what the consumer
needs. The logical explanation for fulfilling the needs is
a simple one. If a person lives in New York, that person
needs a winter coat to survive the cold outside. But why
the person buys a particular style or colour depends on
the more complex issues of why a particular choice is
made. The key to unlocking consumer psychology is
understanding that desires rule over needs when it
comes to consumer purchase. In our modern world
where new food products and electronic gadgets
emerge daily, it is in the interest of psychologists, as
well as those marketing the products, to understand the
relationship between financial and psychological factors
that make people buy what they buy. In fact, consumer
psychology utilises more than simply psychology,
because it also studies economics and culture.

47. Which of the following does consumer psychology
deal with?

48. Which of the following can be inferred from the
passage about the relationship between needs and
purchases?
A) Advertisers should take into account what consumers
need, irrespective of what they desire, in order to
persuade them to buy particular products.
B) Consumers are overwhelmed by their inner voice
telling them to buy what they need rather than what
they want.
C) Economic factors far outweigh psychological ones
when it comes to purchases based on fundamental
needs.
D) Although needs intervene in consumer purchase, they
fall short in accounting for the details of the choices
consumers make.
E) Advertisers should acknowledge that the battle
between desires and needs usually ends in the victory
of the latter.

49. It can be inferred from the passage that in order to
better understand consumer psychology, one
should ----.

A) What marketers can do to effectively reach out to
potential customers

A) consider that there are several factors at play when
examining consumers’ buying habits

B) The challenge experienced by psychologists to
understand consumer behaviour

B) study financial factors rather than psychological ones
that play a key role in advertising a product

C) How basic requirements and desires influence
consumer behaviour

C) concentrate more on seemingly rational reasons rather
than superficial ones in buying decisions

D) Whether certain goods and services chosen by
consumers satisfy them or not

D) pay special attention to the fact that advertisers often
try to persuade people to buy what they actually do not
need

E) How to help consumers avoid the conflict of needs and
desires when making a purchase

E) realise that consumers often tend to buy what they
need rather than what they desire

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English

50. What is the main purpose of the passage?
A) To analyse people’s buying habits from an economic
viewpoint
B) To highlight the huge number of products consumers
are offered
C) To stress the significant effect of advertising on
consumer psychology
D) To describe the change in consumer psychology in the
modern world
E) To explain what consumer psychology does to
understand consumer behaviour

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English
51-54: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.
All plants can survive for short periods without light.
Obviously, they need to be able to last through the
night, but they can also cope with a longer darkness in
an emergency. If you leave a tent pitched on the same
patch of lawn, the grass underneath turns yellow and
spindly. This is an adaptation, called etiolation, which
focuses the plant’s remaining resources into growing as
far as possible to try and reach sunlight again. There
are also some plants that have lost the power of
photosynthesis altogether. The genus Orobanche
(commonly known as ‘broomrape’) is an example. The
plants have no chlorophyll and get all their nutrients by
parasitically attaching to the roots of nearby plants
instead. Although broomrape does not harness sunlight
itself, it is still indirectly reliant on the sun to provide
energy to its host plant. Some other parasitic plants,
called mycoheterotrophs, feed on fungi and these could
theoretically survive in complete darkness for months or
even years. But of course, those fungi in turn get their
energy by digesting dead plants, and in a permanently
dark world, this food source would eventually run out.

52. Which of the following is given as a feature of
broomrape?
A) It provides energy for many nearby plants thanks to its
roots that harness sunlight.
B) It can photosynthesise only when it is connected to
another plant.
C) It cannot feed itself without attaching to a plant that
photosynthesises.
D) It never depends on sunlight to harness energy thanks
to its adaptation skill.
E) All the nutrients it gets are used up by the host plant it
is attached to.

53. Which of the following is clearly stated about the
survival mechanism of mycoheterotrophs?
A) Their source of energy is limited to the amount of dead
plants in their habitat.

51. What can be understood about the adaptation
process of plants?
A) They tend to use their remaining energy in an attempt
to access sunlight.
B) They are not really affected by permanent darkness
due to etiolation.
C) Even short periods of darkness cause plants to lose
their ability to adapt.

B) They mainly depend on direct and permanent sunlight
to survive.
C) They physically attach to fungi to help them digest
dead plants.
D) They are heavily exploited by parasitic plants such as
fungi to harness energy.
E) The longer their habitat is in darkness, the stronger
their survival skill gets.

D) Some plants such as grass are more adaptable to
darkness than others.
E) They adjust to complete darkness by using up all their
energy, so they no longer need photosynthesis.

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English

54. What is the main idea of the passage?
A) All plants need one another to store energy and
produce food.
B) Plants can adapt to darkness, but none of them can
live forever without sunlight.
C) The sun is the eternal source of energy for living
beings on our planet.
D) Nature has so many defects that it is difficult for us to
make up for all of them.
E) Darkness makes some plant species more susceptible
to parasites.

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English
55-58: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.
Some 150 years after the Great French Wine Blight,
European vines – climbing plants that produce grapes
– are under threat from a disease that originated in the
Americas. A bacterium known as Xyllella fastidiosa
causes Pierce’s disease, in which the plants’ transport
vessels become blocked, cutting the supply of water
and nutrients to the leaves. California’s Department of
Food and Agriculture spends about $40 million a year to
control the leaf-hopping insects that carry the bacteria
from plant to plant in that region. Without this
expenditure, the annual cost to the wine industry could
be up to $250 million. The bacterium does not just hit
vines – in the Americas, it also strikes citrus and coffee
plants. Now X. fastidiosa has reached Europe, where it
has earned another name – the ‘Ebola of olive trees’. In
2013, it was spotted in a few olive trees in southern
Italy, and by 2015 had infected up to a million trees
there with what has become known as olive quick
decline syndrome. So far, 359 plant species in Europe
have been identified as being vulnerable to X.
fastidiosa, including peaches, lavender and rosemary.
Some show no symptoms, acting as reservoirs for the
bacteria. Others dry and die quickly. Short of controlling
insect species that could spread the disease, no cure is
yet known. Generally cold winters slow the spread of
Pierce’s disease; however, as the planet warms, there is
every chance the disease’s ranges could increase.

56. Which could be inferred from the passage?
A) Throughout Europe, 359 plant species have been
found to show the symptoms of Pierce’s disease.
B) Although Pierce’s disease affects a lot of plants in
Europe, it only develops in vines in the Americas.
C) California has been unable to cope with the insects
that transmit X. fastidiosa, which has destroyed the
wine industry.
D) The impact of X. fastidiosa is far-reaching when the
variety of infected plant species is considered.
E) Southern Italy is known to be the place where Pierce’s
disease appeared for the first time.

57. Which of the following conclusions could be drawn
from the passage?
A) Agricultural damage from Pierce’s disease peaks in
winter months across Europe.
B) Why plant species die soon after they catch Pierce’s
disease has not been revealed yet.
C) Most plant species infected with X. fastidiosa show
typical symptoms of Pierce’s disease.

55. One can understand from the passage that Pierce’s
disease ----.
A) originated in the Americas in 2013, killing many plant
species

D) High temperatures may increase the speed at which
Pierce’s disease is spreading.
E) Plants with Pierce’s disease can be cured by
supplying adequate water and nutrients to their leaves.

B) has already devastated the wine industry both in the
Americas and Europe
C) causes the leaves of a plant to be deprived of
necessary ingredients
D) is spread by a bacterium that absorbs water and
nutrients in the leaves of a plant
E) has caused more damage in Europe than the Great
French Wine Blight did

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English

58. What is the primary purpose of the author?
A) To emphasise the great amount of money spent to
protect the wine industry against Pierce’s disease
B) To point out the serious danger Pierce’s disease
poses to various plant species
C) To explain why X. fastidiosa is called the ‘Ebola of
olive trees’ in Europe
D) To warn that insects carrying X. fastidiosa increase in
number as the planet warms
E) To draw attention to the fact that a cure to eradicate
Pierce’s disease is to arrive shortly

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English
59-62: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.
Do you think you are too old to do sport? Think again.
An analysis of the world’s oldest record-breakers has
named 104-year-old cyclist Robert Marchand as
champion. Romuald Lepers at the University of
Burgundy, in Dijon, France, and his colleagues have
investigated how age affects athletic performance.
While looking at middle-aged athletes, the team began
to wonder who the world’s best 100-plus sportsperson
might be. They identified all the best performances by
centenarians in athletics, swimming and cycling. Then
they compared each athlete with the world record holder
in their discipline. The centenarian athlete who showed
the smallest decline was Frenchman Robert Marchand.
Cycling 26.93 kilometres in 1 hour, Marchand was only
50.6 percent slower than Bradley Wiggins’s 54.53 km
record. The study has also shown that athletic ability
can be maintained until 35 to 40, and after that,
performance decreases by about 10 percent per
decade. But Marchand’s ability has declined much more
slowly. Lepers says that Marchand has extraordinary
muscular and cardiorespiratory function for his age. His
performance corresponds to an age-related decline of
less than 8 percent per decade. Lepers suggests that
these athletes are not only remarkable biological
examples, but they could also be good role models for
others to follow. “Take Canadian Ed Withlock,” he says.
Withlock was the first person over 70 to run a marathon
in less than 3 hours. He took up running in his 40s. “It’s
never too late to be active,” says Lepers.

60. To find the world’s best 100-plus sportsperson,
Lepers and his colleagues ----.
A) checked whether a centenarian athlete was able to
break the world record in his or her discipline in the
past
B) examined the most successful performances by
100-plus athletes and compared them with each other
C) looked at the differences between centenarians’
performances and those of the world record holders
D) asked the world record holders in athletics, swimming
and cycling to lay out selection criteria
E) compared the performances of centenarian athletes
with those of the middle-aged athletes

61. It is clear from the passage that the decline in
Marchand’s athletic ability ----.
A) has been far slower thanks to his exceptional physical
characteristics
B) has been found to be by 8 to 10 percent per decade
C) has allowed him to be a great inspiration to the
athletes under 40
D) has been less sharp than the decrease in Bradley
Wiggins’s athletic ability

59. What was the initial aim of the study conducted by
Lepers and his colleagues?

E) has been occurring at a rapid pace due to his
weakening bodily functions

A) To show that old people can also display excellent
performance in several sports
B) To explain how world record holders in different sports
achieved extraordianary success
C) To find out when athletic performance begins to
decline dramatically
D) To study the relation between age and athletic
performance in middle-aged sportspeople
E) To discover what distinguishes Robert Marchand from
other 100-plus sportspeople

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English

62. Why does Lepers put a special emphasis on
Withlock’s performance?
A) To suggest that 3 hours is not sufficient for a 70-plus
athlete to run a marathon
B) To show that marathons are races where we can see
powerful athletes over 70
C) To stress that an athlete must be a record-breaker to
gain worldwide recognition
D) To prove that Withlock was a more successful
sportsperson than Marchand
E) To indicate that one could be a brilliant sportsperson
at any age

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English

63-67: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the dialogue.

63. Johanna:
 Today, our psychology professor talked about a
biological process called 'neuroplasticity'. He said
that even the adult brain can grow new brain cells
in response to new experiences.
Stan:
 ---Johanna:
 Yeah, he said the exact same thing. I’d never
thought of them as being beneficial at all. I used
to think they only cause aggressive behaviour and
addiction.
Stan:
 Well, apparently some scientists still have those
fears, but it all depends on how effectively you
use them.
A) Such as playing action video games? I remember
reading that they help the brain and improve cognitive
skills.
B) That's really interesting. I’ve always thought that the
human brain couldn’t grow new cells after a certain
age.
C) Did he say what kind of experiences? I’ve been
playing chess for years hoping that it’ll give me a
cognitive advantage at school.

64. Debby:
 I was recently offered a job at a different firm with
a higher salary. I feel as if I’m at a crossroads in
my career. I’ll have to make a decision soon.
Lucy:
 ---Debby:
 I love my job and the team, but I feel the company
is asking too much of me.
Lucy:
 I think you’ll easily get used to working with a new
team. And this change will be to your advantage.
You know it’s much easier to set your limits at the
beginning. If you do so, I’m sure you'll manage
your professional life more easily.
A) What stops you from negotiating a better deal with
your current employer?
B) Until now you seemed really happy with your current
job. What’s the problem?
C) I know it’s quite challenging. What’s attractive about
the new offer?
D) You’ve always dreamed of working in a big company.
Why would you let yourself miss such an opportunity?
E) Do you think you’ve practised building appropriate
boundaries in your professional life?

D) I’ve seen scientists trying it with patients suffering from
Alzheimer's disease to prevent them from losing
cognitive skills.
E) But, don’t forget that outdoor games are more useful
and educational than indoor games, no matter how
entertaining they are.

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English

65. Daisy:
 Last week, I was in a situation where things went
from bad to worse. I failed to meet my end-of-year
targets at work, the central heating system in my
apartment broke, and my car was hit by an
unknown car. All these happened in the same
week!
Sally:
 Terrible! How do you keep calm in such
situations?
Daisy:
 ---Sally:
 What do you do with that information?

66. Kelsey:
 Now, more and more experts are complaining
about modern parenting styles. They say parents
try to create an image of success that has little to
do with their childen’s desires, talents or needs.
Jill:
 ---Kelsey:
 Actually, this makes children less independent.
They always feel the need to meet their parents’
wishes and ask them what to do in their lives.
Jill:
 So, overparenting may prevent children from
building self-confidence and gaining the ability to
adapt to an unpredictable world.

Daisy:
 I look at the list and focus on the ones I can do
something about. Then I think about the actions
I can take, including asking for help if necessary.

A) Parents tend to bring up their children as they were
raised in the past, but it’s really difficult in this
ever-changing world.

A) I can think and worry about many things at the same
time, but when I’m in the action phase, I try to avoid
that.

B) I think every child has a special talent, but it may
remain undiscovered unless their parents help them
recognise themselves.

B) The truth is, it’s hard not to lose it in these moments. I
may end up giving up because of the never-ending list
of problems.

C) That’s true. They want to sculpt their kids into a
particular kind of adult, stressing them with endless
schedules and heavy expectations.

C) I write everything down. I draw a line, and on the left I
put down all the problems, and on the right what to do
about those problems.

D) I agree that parents should offer advice to their kids
about their future plans, but they shouldn’t forget to
understand their wishes too.

D) In my experience, the easiest way to keep calm is to
regain control of the situation by collecting information
from as many people as possible.

E) In today’s world, parents are bombarded with
information from books and experts, so they can’t
often decide how to contribute to their children’s
success.

E) No matter how bad things are, keeping my calm
always helps me come up with a possible solution. I
keep saying “This too shall pass”.

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English

67. Robert:
 The article I read this morning says whales stop
singing when ships are nearby.
Leonie:
 ---Robert:
 It said that they used two underwater recorders to
capture their singing in a remote area where a
cargo liner was the only large ship around, and
they found that whales within 500 metres of the
ship when it passed tended to stop singing.
Leonie:
 So, it’s obvious that for some reason shipping
interferes with whale songs.
A) Does the article say which kind of whales were
examined in their research?
B) How did researchers observe the whales’ response to
shipping noise?
C) Do researchers think that whales feel threatened and
try to remain undetected?
D) Then, how do whales communicate with each other
when they don’t sing?
E) Why does shipping noise have a considerable impact
on whale behaviour?

68-71: For these questions, choose the best
rephrased form of the given sentence.

68. Lightning sensors can pinpoint lightning strikes and
provide initial attack crews with accurate locations;
however, there are too many strikes to check them
all, and not every strike results in a fire.
A) Although there are too many lightning strikes to check,
and not all lead to a fire, lightning sensors are effective
at detecting them and giving initial attack crews
precise locations.
B) There are too many lightning strikes to be checked,
most of which do not cause a fire, but lightning
sensors help initial attack crews identify them and find
the precise locations.
C) It is impossible to check all lightning strikes that cause
a fire as there are too many of them; nevertheless,
lightning sensors can provide specific locations so that
initial attack crews can check them.
D) Lightning sensors can identify lightning strikes and
help to cope with fires through providing initial attack
crews with the exact location, though it is not easy to
check them all since there are too many strikes.
E) Lightning sensors detect so many fires caused by
lightning strikes that even if they show initial attack
crews the exact location of these strikes, it is not easy
to check them all.

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English

69. The birthday cake tradition in the United States is
little more than a century old, but the relationship of
cakes and celebration has a much longer history.
A) People in the United States have been traditionally
celebrating birthdays with cakes for a long time since
the two concepts were linked to each other around a
century ago.
B) It was thanks to the emergence of the birthday cake
tradition in the United States less than a century ago
that the enduring relationship between cakes and
celebration was established.
C) Despite the interconnection between cakes and
celebration, it was not until a little more than a century
ago that people in the United States began to
celebrate birthdays with cakes.
D) Although the birthday cake tradition in the United
States has a history of slightly more than a century,
cakes and celebration have been associated with each
other for a considerably longer time.
E) Until a little more than a century ago, people in the
United States celebrated birthdays with cakes, but the
traditional connection between cakes and celebration
is a bit older than that.

70. People had long known of petroleum, but there
seemed to be little commercial use until 1853 when
Samuel Kier began using it to make kerosene, a
cheap substitute for the whale oil commonly used in
lamps.
A) The development of kerosene in 1853 by Samuel Kier
as an economical alternative to whale oil for lamps
was not the first commercial use of petroleum because
people had known about it for so long, but it was the
most commercially successful enterprise.
B) Though being known for a long time, petroleum did not
seem to be much commercial until Samuel Kier
developed it into kerosene in 1853 – a cheaper
alternative to the whale oil commonly used in lamps.
C) Although most people had long known about the
commercial uses of petroleum, there was little
development of the substance until 1853 when
Samuel Kier started using it to make kerosene and
marketing it as a cheaper substitute for the whale oil
commonly used in lamps.
D) It was in 1853 that petroleum – a substance which
people had long known about but did not seem to
have much interest in – was used commercially for the
first time by Samuel Kier to make kerosene, which was
a more economical substitute to power lamps than the
commonly used whale oil.
E) In 1853, as the need for a more economical alternative
to whale oil to power lamps arose, Samuel Kier saw an
opportunity to make kerosene from petroleum – a
substance long known for both its history and
commercial uses.

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English

71. Ageing is a complicated process, involving DNA
damage, chronic inflammation, and worn-out cells,
but we do not yet know which of these has the
biggest impact on ageing.
A) The combination of DNA damage, chronic
inflammation and worn-out cells affects ageing to
unknown extents, making it a complicated process.
B) Because ageing is a complex process, the relationship
between ageing and resultant effects of DNA damage,
chronic inflammation and worn-out cells is largely
unknown.
C) As a complex process, ageing includes DNA damage,
chronic inflammation and worn-out cells, though it is
not clear which affects the ageing process the most.
D) Ageing, which itself is a complicated process,
damages DNA, causes chronic inflammation and
wears out cells; however, we do not yet know which
symptom is triggered by ageing the most.
E) Ageing is characterised by damaged DNA, chronic
inflammation and worn-out cells, but which one of
these makes the process more complicated is yet to
be determined.

72-75: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the missing part of the
passage.
72. ---- Yet even today, when objective evidence is
valued highly, most people would admit to secretly
cherishing one, or two, or many superstitions.
Across America, tens of thousands of lottery tickets
are pencilled in every day based on nothing more or
less than people's lucky numbers. Though we now
have scientific explanations for a number of
once-mysterious phenomena, daily life still holds
enough unpredictability that we turn to superstitions
to account for the implausible.
A) Bad-luck superstitions still keep many people from
walking under a ladder, opening an umbrella indoors,
or boarding an airplane on Friday the thirteenth.
B) Scientific studies reveal that most of the superstitious
beliefs we inherit involve ways to protect ourselves
from evil.
C) Archaeologists identify Neanderthal man, who roamed
throughout Western Asia 50,000 years ago, as having
produced the first superstitious belief.
D) Superstitious beliefs, given their irrational nature,
should have receded with the arrival of education and
the advent of science.
E) Supernatural beliefs come into being when particular
events happen in a way that cannot be explained by
reason and are followed by superstitions to help
control them.

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English

73. Braille is a tactile (touch-based) system of written
language that features patterns of raised dots to
represent letters of the alphabet, common words
and contractions, mathematical symbols, and
punctuation. Named after its developer, Louis
Braille, braille allows people who are blind to read
and, with adaptive technology, to write. ---- Learning
each of the different forms of braille code is like
learning a new language. Therefore, most people
only learn the one or two of those they are most
likely to use in their daily lives.
A) People whose vision is still intact can also learn
braille, and should if they have regular interactions
with people who are blind.
B) There are a number of braille variations in common
use in the US, including braille specific to music,
mathematics, science, and computer programming.
C) Many communities have schools and consultants who
teach braille as well as libraries that provide braille
publications.
D) Nemeth braille code provides a mix of American
literary braille, Nemeth braille, and unique symbols for
instruction documentation.
E) American literary braille code uses about 250 patterns
to create book-length materials using short-form
words, contractions, and single-cell words.

74. Gothic is the style of architecture and art that
succeeded Romanesque and prevailed in Europe
from the mid-12th century to the 16th century. Like
many other stylistic labels, the word was originally a
term of abuse. It was coined by Italian artists of the
Renaissance to denote the type of medieval
architecture they condemned as barbaric. ---- None
of these features was first used in the Gothic period,
but when employed together they created a new
type of skeletal structure and a sense of graceful
resilience that was very different in spirit from the
massive solidity of Romanesque buildings.
A) The Gothic style is still characterised chiefly in terms
of architecture – in particular by the use of pointed
arches, rib vaults, and flying buttresses.
B) The term ‘Gothic’ has also been applied to the
ornament, sculpture, and painting of the period in
which Gothic architecture flourished.
C) A swaying elegance is often considered typical of
Gothic figures, which are generally more naturalistic
and less remote than those of the Romanesque
period.
D) This architecture was not created by the Gothic tribes
who had destroyed the classical art of the Roman
Empire.
E) However, the movement became more serious in tone
and developed into a major strand in art.

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English

75. The fossil record of dinosaurs in Africa extends
from the Late Triassic Period, over 200 million years
ago, until the Late Cretaceous Period, presumably
65 million years ago. However, the extinction event
that ended the reign of dinosaurs has yet to be
documented. Throughout this length of time, Africa
remained relatively stable geologically, changing
position only slightly by drifting and rotating
northward. ---- The changing geography of Africa
and its neighbours throughout the Mesozoic Period
is fundamental to understanding the dinosaur
fossils found there.
A) During the Late Triassic through the Early Jurassic,
major continental land masses were united into the
supercontinent of Pangaea.
B) Late Triassic dinosaur sites are found extensively in
southern Africa (particularly South Africa, Lesotho, and
Zimbabwe) and to a lesser extent in northern Africa
(Morocco).

76-80: For these questions, choose the irrelevant
sentence in the passage.

76. (I) Science that presents an organised view of the
universe developed with the rise of Greek civilisation,
starting about 600 BC. (II) Scholars from the Egyptian
and Mesopotamian civilisations already had learned
many scientific results before the start of Greek
civilisation. (III) The Greeks developed institutions, such
as the Academy, the Lyceum, and the Museum, that
pursued science in somewhat the way the universities
do today. (IV) When the Academy and Lyceum were
closed, and the Museum was destroyed, the Greek era
in science was over. (V) This period, from the birth
of Western civilisation in Europe to the start of what is
often called the Dark Ages, can be termed 'Antiquity'.
A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V

C) Thus, the dinosaur fauna of the Late Triassic and
Early Jurassic are generally similar across the globe
because there was only one continent rather than
several continents.
D) By contrast, the continents surrounding Africa moved
greatly, resulting in ocean barriers between what were
once contiguous land masses.
E) The boundary between the Triassic and Jurassic
Period is marked by extinctions globally, but it has not
been studied in detail in Africa.

77. (I) The Magna Carta was a document written to satisfy
the grievances of England's barons and the Church by
clearly defining their rights and responsibilities, as well
as those of the King. (II) The agreement covered
such topics as the giving of heirs in marriage, a widow's
right to choose not to re-marry, and the handling of
debts following a debtor's death. (III) Of particular note
though were the promises that no free man would
be imprisoned except by lawful justice, nor would they
be denied the right to justice. (IV) The Magna Carta
was written in medieval Latin and agreed to and sealed
by King John in 1215. (V) There were also restrictions
placed on the use of taxation by the King and his
barons, including the formation of a council that could
approve or reject proposed taxes.
A) I
B) II
C) III
D) IV
E) V

Go on to the next page.

2019-YDS/1/English

78. (I) The world's reef systems face overwhelming
stress – threats from overfishing, pollution and climate
change being the main causes. (II) Most threatened is
the Caribbean reef system, with more than 80 percent of
its live coral cover having disappeared since the 1970s,
largely due to global warming. (III) Coral has evolved a
spectacular way of maximising its chances of survival.
(IV) A visual example of the damage being done is coral
bleaching, which turns coral from a natural pink shade
to a ghostly white. (V) It is the result of warmer waters
destroying the algae that give coral its usual colour.
A) I
B) II
C) III
D) IV
E) V

79. (I) Allergies, like many conditions, tend to become worse
if a person is run-down, stressed, over-tired, has a poor
diet, or does not get adequate exercise. (II) An allergy is
defined as a condition caused by an inappropriate or
exaggerated reaction by the body’s immune system.
(III) Harmless substances are misidentified by it as
potentially dangerous, so the immune response is to
form antibodies. (IV) These attack the perceived irritants
– or allergens – on the surface of the offending
substance. (V) The reaction between antibodies and
allergens stimulates the release of substances within
the body, such as histamine, which cause a variety of
irritating symptoms.
A) I
B) II
C) III
D) IV
E) V

80. (I) The voyages of discovery of the 15th and 16th
centuries unveiled whole new worlds to the European
eye, worlds full of new animals, plants and people.
(II) The passage to new worlds was regarded by many
as a commercial opportunity. (III) These new lands were
rich in raw materials, which could be traded for
manufactured goods. (IV) They also offered possibilities
of settlement, and a number of countries began to plant
their flags in distant parts of the globe. (V) The
cultivation of sugar, tobacco and other crops on the
plantations depended on slave labour.
A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V