1-6: For these questions, choose the best word or
expression to fill the space.

1. Research has found that the typical brain is a
‘mosaic’ combining some features that are more
common in males and some that appear more
frequently in females, pointing to the ---- that human
brains do not belong to two distinct types
categorised by gender.
A) violation
B) conclusion
C) development

4. Maps of the ocean are rare as the vastness and
depth of the ocean make it ---- difficult to study.
A) admirably

B) notoriously

C) questionably

D) properly
E) incidentally

D) compulsion
E) obstacle

5. Children with autism spectrum conditions often
have trouble ---- the emotional states of people
around them, struggling to distinguish a happy face
from a sad one, for example.
A) overcoming

B) ignoring

C) provoking

D) identifying

2. Many scientists and research advocates contend
that animal experiments are crucial for learning
about basic biology and disease mechanisms, and
are necessary for testing the ---- of new medicines.
A) scarcity

B) urgency

D) efficacy

E) improving

C) ambiguity
E) uniformity
6. Human accomplishments ---- our ability to acquire
knowledge from others and to use that communal
store of experience to devise novel solutions to
life’s challenges.

3. Because the functions and disturbances of smell
and taste are nearly ----, disturbances of one affect
the other.
A) inconvenient

B) unremarkable

C) inexplicable

D) unsophisticated

A) call off

B) stem from

C) bring down

D) take out
E) figure out

E) inseparable

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH

7-16: For these questions, choose the best
word(s) or expression(s) to fill the space(s).

7. For the first time, doctors ---- that temporarily
opening the protective barrier of the human brain ---to boost the delivery of cancer medication to brain
tumours.

9. A tsunami damaged emergency generators that ---power to keep the nuclear reactors at Fukushima in
Japan cool; however, the earthquake ---- to the
tsunami also caused the cooling systems to fail.
A) should provide / to lead
B) could have provided / to have led

A) are showing / helped

C) would have provided / leading

B) have shown / helps

D) must have provided / having led

C) showed / is helping

E) might provide / led

D) will have shown / was helping
E) will be showing / has been helping

10. ---- the 17th century, committed Anglicans produced
a steady flow of religious and devotional literature
that aimed to inspire holiness ---- readers.
8. The Martian atmosphere is so thin, and the planet’s
temperature so low that liquid water ---- there, and if
it ever did in the past, conditions ---- very different.

A) By / about

B) During / through

C) Throughout / among

D) From / against

A) might not have existed / were to be

E) Across / over

B) could not exist / may be
C) would not exist / can be
D) cannot exist / must have been
E) must not exist / should have been

11. The word adolescence is Latin ---- origin, derived
from the verb adolescere, which means ‘to grow
---- adulthood’.
A) through / on

B) from / to

C) at / beyond

D) in / into
E) with / over

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH

12. ---- immigrants to North America's new colonies
were primarily British in the 17th and 18th
centuries, significant numbers of people of other
nationalities also established a presence in the
Americas.
A) Because

B) While

C) As long as

D) Provided that

15. Personality is ---- a crucial aspect of psychology ---every main branch of psychological research has
attempted to contribute to the existing knowledge in
this area.
A) such / that

B) whether / or

C) as much / as

D) the more / the more
E) neither / nor

E) Once

13. Not much had been accomplished with the
phenomena of magnetism and static ---- the Chinese
began to use the magnetic compass for navigation
around 1000 AD.
A) in case

B) while

C) until

D) if

16. Having a geopolitical significance ---- its unique
aspect of dividing two continents, the Bosphorus
stands among distinguished landmarks of Istanbul.
A) similar to

B) thanks to

C) in place of

D) in spite of
E) contrary to

E) as soon as

14. Liquid water covers more than two-thirds of the
Blue Planet's surface, ---- exactly how it got there
has always been puzzling.
A) so

B) instead

C) but

D) otherwise
E) as

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH
17-21: For these questions, choose the best
word or expression to fill the spaces in the
passage.
In 2015, the Australian Shark Attack File, kept by
researchers at Sydney’s Taronga Conservation Society,
recorded 33 shark attacks in local waters, two of which
were fatal. Both deaths, (17)---- a series of close
encounters in which no one was harmed, were clustered
around the towns of Ballina and Byron Bay in New
South Wales, one of the eastern states of Australia.
(18)----, in 2014 the total number of attacks was 23; in
2013, that figure stood at 14. “But the stats only tell part
of the story,” says John West, curator of the Australian
Shark Attack File. He (19)---- the rise in attacks not to a
sudden change in shark behaviour but to the higher
number of surfers in the water. “For the last 60 years,
wetsuits (20)---- people to spend more time in the water
throughout the winter months, thus surfing in those
conditions increases the risk,” says West. In addition,
marine ecologist Dr. Daniel Bucher suggests that
rainfalls in the state’s north could be carrying food for
fish from rivers (21)---- the ocean and attracting sharks.
“Don’t swim if you know there are plenty of bait fish
around,” Bucher advises. “Especially if they’re breaking
the surface, as it usually means something is chasing
them from below.”

19.
A) leads

B) exposes

C) attributes

D) dedicates
E) conveys

20.
A) were allowing

B) have allowed

C) had allowed

D) used to allow
E) will be allowing

21.
A) with

B) about
D) into

17.
A) owing to

B) on behalf of

C) by means of

D) with the aim of

C) for
E) upon

E) along with

18.
A) Therefore

B) That is

C) Eventually

D) For instance
E) By comparison

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH
22-26: For these questions, choose the best
word or expression to fill the spaces in the
passage.
As early humans moved out of Africa and into colder
climates, they were confronted with the problem of
keeping warm. Without a coat of hair to protect
themselves against harsh climatic conditions, they
(22)---- an artificial means of retaining body heat in order
to survive. From this basic need developed the rich and
varied dress of the world’s peoples. As societies began
to develop, many other factors (23)---- the specific dress
of a region or a culture, including the relative affluence,
class and hierarchy, migration, war, religion, and
industrialisation. Historically, dress has provided people
with a visual cue that helps them make predictions
about a person (24)---- ethnicity, class, gender,
profession, economic status, and even place of origin. It
forms an important element in social and economic
history and can be an excellent basis (25)---- the study of
culture. Most cultures have particular dress for
ceremonial occasions and life celebrations. (26)----,
dress holds a central role in ritual, social, and political
life.

24.
A) regardless of

B) in contrast with

C) similar to

D) in terms of
E) rather than

25.
A) over

B) for
D) toward

C) at
E) from

26.

22.
A) might find

B) should have found

C) can find

D) had to find
E) would have found

A) Even so

B) Instead

C) However

D) Otherwise
E) Therefore

23.
A) blurred

B) endured

C) determined

D) exhausted
E) threatened

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH

27-36: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the given sentence.

27. As the Dakota tribes along the Minnesota River in
the US were fed up with settlers flooding into their
territory, ----.
A) they were less powerful and thus failed to defeat the
settlers
B) the settlers were determined to fight against the
Dakota tribes
C) they decided to respond with attacks to push the
settlers off their reservation
D) the settlers reached an agreement on the territorial
issues with the Dakota tribes

29. For a long time, punishment was viewed as a useful
child-rearing tool, ----.
A) since children seek role models who they can observe
and imitate to learn complex social behaviours
B) furthermore, it evokes strong negative feelings in a
child that he or she relates to the person applying it
C) therefore, punishment draws attention to the negative
behaviour rather than the desired alternative
D) yet, it is now recognised that it generally does not lead
to the desired behavioural outcome for children
E) hence, parents punishing their children for an
inappropriate action are not providing an example of
the correct behaviour

E) the new settlers of Dakota started a riot to rebel
against the tribal chiefs

30. While each researcher has their own way of
analysing and interpreting animal remains, ----.
28. Because we are bombarded with so much
information and misinformation about what might
cause cancer, ----.
A) it is often hard to separate myth from reality
B) it affects every one of us in the same way

A) it must be remembered that sample size and
preservation quality ultimately influence the outcome
B) animal remains aid in the interpretation of ancient
resource choices
C) it is fundamental to determine the locations and social
complexity of archaeological sites

C) the chance of being diagnosed is one in two

D) animal remains can be used to provide information
about a variety of issues in the study of societies

D) there are some things we can do to reduce our risk of
getting cancer

E) some methods, terms and analytical tools are
considered standard

E) the extent of public confusion was exposed in a survey
last year

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH

31. Even though animal behaviourists have traditionally
avoided linking human emotions, such as grief, with
responses by animals, ----.
A) grief in animals may take forms that are difficult for
humans to recognise as mourning
B) observations suggest that the ways in which we mourn
might be uniquely human
C) a growing body of evidence shows that species
ranging from dolphins to ducks mourn the passing of
relatives
D) research on grief in wild monkeys that live in social
units has been surprisingly limited so far
E) we think that humans are the only species that grieves
over the loss of loved ones

32. ----, language, as a complicated phenomenon of the
human mind, does not seem to be restricted to a
single region in the brain.
A) If neurolinguists want to examine the functioning of the
human brain in more detail
B) Even if certain tasks are fulfilled through coordination
among neurons
C) Although it is localised mainly on the left side of the
brain
D) As it is a concrete manifestation of the human mind
E) When the brain is overwhelmed with long and complex
sentences

33. ----, someone who is successful in several fields is
often called a Renaissance man or Renaissance
woman.
A) In order to better understand the masterpieces of the
brilliant Renaissance artists such as Michelangelo and
Raphael
B) While the Renaissance affected every area of human
activity and knowledge, from art to zoology
C) Because the Renaissance produced individuals with a
wide range of interests who excelled in a number of
different areas
D) Although most historians shared the view of the period
as a rebirth after the darkness of the Middle Ages
E) After science advanced when Renaissance humanists
discovered and spread ancient works on mathematics,
medicine, and other topics

34. Peer pressure is what causes people to do things
that are popular in order to fit in with others, ----.
A) while middle school students influence each other to a
great extent
B) however, peers are the people who are of similar age,
such as classmates
C) in other words, some individuals resist peer
pressure and prioritise their own personal views
D) so it can be a very powerful driving force in the lives of
adolescents
E) as psychologists use positive peer pressure as a
method to change a child’s behaviour

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH

35. According to skeletal therapists, it is vital that
women strengthen their bodies in their 40s, ----.
A) so a considerable number of women do not know very
well how to maintain their bone health

37-42: For these questions, choose the most
accurate Turkish translation of the sentences in
English, and the most accurate English translation
of the sentences in Turkish.

B) as bone density starts to gradually decrease, leaving
the bones fragile during this period

37. Alternative medicine has become increasingly
popular in the Western world since about 1975, and
has been the subject of much research ever since.

C) but hunched shoulders and poor posture can lead to a
range of health issues in the old age

A) Yaklaşık 1975’ten beri Batı dünyasında gittikçe
yaygınlaşan alternatif tıp, bu tarihten itibaren birçok
araştırmanın konusu olmuştur.

D) as long as muscles work optimally to support the
skeleton and the body is positioned correctly
E) even though bad posture is known to give them an
awkward look and might lead to serious ailments in
time

B) Alternatif tıp, Batı dünyasında yaklaşık 1975’ten beri
gittikçe popüler hâle gelmiştir ve bu tarihten itibaren
pek çok araştırmanın konusu olmuştur.
C) Alternatif tıp, Batı dünyasında yaklaşık 1975’ten beri
gitgide yaygınlaşarak bu tarihten itibaren çok sayıda
araştırmanın konusu olmuştur.
D) Yaklaşık 1975’ten beri Batı dünyasında gittikçe artan
bir popülerliğe sahip olan alternatif tıp, bu tarihten
itibaren birçok araştırmaya konu olmuştur.

36. Fast food has emerged as one of the biggest
enemies of health, especially for children, ----.

E) Alternatif tıp, yaklaşık 1975’ten beri Batı dünyasında
gitgide tanındığı için bu tarihten itibaren birçok
araştırmanın konusu olmuştur.

A) thus its high consumption makes sense when the
prices are considered
B) provided that the most common cause of obesity is the
wide availability of fast food
C) while people are highly concerned about the nutritional
deficiency of foods like burgers
D) so the fast food industry has received a lot of critical
attention in recent years
E) as many fast food restaurants have started to provide
healthier alternatives such as salads

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH

38. Forensic investigators make a permanent record of
anything at a crime scene that is relevant to the
crime, and not only does this attention prevent
dependence on highly unreliable human memory,
and it also provides evidence that is likely to be
accepted in court.
A) Adli araştırmacıların olay yerinde suç ile ilgili her şeyin
kalıcı kaydını tutmaları ve onların bu dikkatleri,
oldukça güvenilmez olan insan hafızasına bağımlı
olmayı engellemekle kalmaz, mahkemede
muhtemelen kabul edilebilecek kanıt da sağlar.
B) Olay yerinde suç ile ilgili her şeyin kalıcı kaydını tutan
adli araştırmacılar ve onların bu dikkatleri, oldukça
güvenilmez olan insan hafızasına bağımlı olmayı
engellemekle birlikte mahkemeye muhtemelen kabul
edilebilecek kanıt sağlar.
C) Adli araştırmacılar, olay yerinde suç ile ilgili her şeyin
kalıcı kaydını tutarlar ve bu dikkat sadece oldukça
güvenilmez olan insan hafızasına bağımlı olmayı
engellemekle kalmaz aynı zamanda mahkemede
muhtemelen kabul edilebilecek kanıt da sağlar.
D) Adli araştırmacılar, olay yerinde suç ile ilgili her şeyin
kalıcı kaydını dikkatle tutarlar ve bu, hem oldukça
güvenilmez olan insan hafızasına bağımlı olmalarını
engeller hem de mahkemede muhtemelen kabul
edilebilecek kanıt sunmalarını sağlar.

39. Bullying has been documented in almost every
culture around the world, though there is evidence
that it may be more prevalent in some countries
than in others.
A) Dünya genelinde neredeyse bütün ülkelerde zorbalığa
dair kanıtlar bulunmaktadır ancak bazı kültürlerde
diğerlerinde olduğundan daha yaygın olabileceği ispat
edilmiştir.
B) Dünya genelinde neredeyse her kültürde kanıtları olan
zorbalığın bazı ülkelerde diğerlerinde olduğundan
daha yaygın olabileceği ispat edilmiştir.
C) Dünya genelinde neredeyse her kültürde bulunduğu
ispat edilmiş olsa da zorbalığın bazı ülkelerde
diğerlerine oranla daha yaygın olduğuna dair kanıtlar
bulunmuştur.
D) Zorbalığın dünya çapında neredeyse her kültürde var
olduğu ispat edilmiştir ancak bazı ülkelerde
diğerlerinde olduğundan daha yaygın olabileceğine
dair kanıtlar bulunmaktadır.
E) Bazı ülkelerde diğerlerine oranla daha yaygın
olabileceğine dair kanıtlar bulunan zorbalığın, dünya
genelinde neredeyse her kültürde var olduğu ispat
edilmiştir.

E) Adli araştırmacılar olay yerinde suç ile ilgili her şeyin
kalıcı kaydını dikkatli bir şekilde tutarak hem oldukça
güvenilmez olan insan hafızasına bağımlı olmaktan
kaçınırlar hem de mahkemede muhtemelen kabul
edilebilecek kanıt elde ederler.

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH

40. Aşırı yağlı yiyecekler tüketen insanların diğerlerine
göre kalitesiz gece uykusundan yakınmaları daha
muhtemeldir, çünkü yağ tüketimi hormonları ve
metabolizmayı olumsuz etkiler, ki bunların ikisi de
uykuyu düzenleyen biyolojik saatle etkileşim
içerisindedir.
A) People who live on high-fat foods are more likely to
suffer from poor night-time sleep than others, because
hormones and metabolism, both of which interact with
the internal clock to regulate sleep, are adversely
affected by fat intake.
B) People who consume high-fat foods are more likely to
suffer from poor night-time sleep than others, as fat
intake negatively affects hormones and metabolism,
both of which interact with the internal clock that
regulates sleep.
C) Because fat intake negatively affects both hormones
and metabolism and their interaction with the internal
clock that regulates sleep, people who prefer high-fat
foods are more likely to suffer from poor night-time
sleep than others.
D) When people consume high-fat foods, they become
more likely to suffer from poor night-time sleep than
others, as fat intake adversely affects hormones and
metabolism, both of which interact with the internal
clock in regulating sleep.

41. Anoreksiya nervoza; perhiz ve ince olma takıntısının
aşırı kilo kaybına yol açtığı bir beslenme
bozukluğudur, ancak birey kilo kaybını bir sağlık
problemi olarak kabul etmez.
A) Anorexia nervosa is an eating disorder caused by an
individual’s obsession with dieting and thinness that
results in excessive weight loss, though the individual
does not accept the weight loss as a health problem.
B) Anorexia nervosa is an eating disorder in which an
individual is obsessed with dieting and thinness and
thus loses excessive weight, but the individual does
not view the weight loss as a health problem.
C) Anorexia nervosa is an eating disorder where
obsession with dieting and thinness leads to excessive
weight loss, but the individual does not acknowledge
the weight loss as a health problem.
D) Anorexia nervosa is an eating disorder that leads an
individual to lose excessive weight because of his or
her obsession with dieting and thinness; however, the
individual does not consider the weight loss as a
health problem.
E) Anorexia nervosa is an eating disorder that causes an
individual who is obsessed with dieting and thinness to
lose excessive weight, which is not seen as a health
problem by that individual.

E) Compared to others, people who eat high-fat foods are
more likely to suffer from poor night-time sleep and the
negative effect of the fat intake on their hormones and
metabolism, both of which interact with the internal
clock that regulates sleep.

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH

42. İlk kentlerin tam olarak ne zaman, nerede ve nasıl
ortaya çıktığına dair devam eden tartışmalar olsa da
çoğu araştırmacı bu kentlerin beş ya da altı bin yıl
önce dünyanın çeşitli bölgelerinde kurulduğunu ileri
sürmektedir.
A) Most researchers claim that the first cities were built
five or six thousand years ago in various regions
around the world, yet there are still ongoing debates
about precisely when, where and how these cities
arose.
B) Even though discussions go on with regard to exactly
when, where and how the first cities arose, many
researchers argue that these cities were built five or
six thousand years ago in various regions around the
world.
C) Most researchers put forward that the first cities were
built five or six thousand years ago in different parts of
the world although debates still continue regarding
exactly when, where and how these cities arose.
D) Although there are ongoing debates about exactly
when, where and how the first cities arose, most
researchers put forward that these cities were built five
or six thousand years ago in various regions around
the world.
E) In spite of the ongoing debates about precisely when,
where and how the first cities arose, most researchers
presume that these cities in different regions around
the world were built five or six thousand years ago.

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH
43-46: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.
You may think that the leap from naked-eye observation
to instrument-aided vision could be one of the greatest
advances in the history of the planet. But nobody set out
to invent a telescope or eyeglasses. One of the deepest
and most widespread human conceptions was faith in
the unaided human senses, particularly the naked eye.
We do not know who invented eyeglasses, how or
where. Everything we know suggests that they were
invented by chance, and by a layman who had not been
taught about optics. Perhaps an elderly glassmaker
making glass disks for leaded windows tested a disk by
looking through it and found to his delight that he could
see much better. We can suspect that the inventor was
not an academic, as professors would delight in
boasting of their invention, and before the 13th century,
we have no record by any such self-styled inventor. The
Italian word lente (English ‘lens’ from ‘lentil’ - the edible
seed) or lente di vetro (glass lentil) first used to describe
the invention was obviously unacademic; it is clearly not
the sort of word that a professor would use to describe
the application of his optical theories. From the first
recorded uses of eyeglasses before 1300 until the
invention of the telescope nearly three hundred years
later, lenses were ignored by scholars.

44. Which of the following could be true of the inventor
of eyeglasses?
A) His usual work involved devising new instruments that
improved human vision.
B) He was an experienced glassmaker who had a keen
interest in optics.
C) He may have been an old inventor who did not want to
boast about his invention.
D) Since he had difficulty seeing while working with glass
disks, he invented eyeglasses to improve his vision.
E) He might have invented eyeglasses unintentionally
while working on an unrelated project.

45. What makes the author think that the invention of
eyeglasses was unacademic?
A) Most academicians did not pay attention to this
invention as they were captivated by a more
sophisticated tool – the telescope.
B) The very first word to refer to this invention seemed
too odd to be linked with optical theories formulated by
a professor.

43. What was the reason for the initial lack of interest in
making instruments for improving human vision?

C) Eyeglasses were invented by a glassmaker who did
not have any knowledge about optical theories.

A) People saw no prospects for developments in the field
of optics with respect to improving human vision.

D) Professors would not consider the invention of
eyeglasses remarkable enough to boast about.

B) Instruments that aided human vision were not a
popular topic of interest among scholars and
glassmakers.

E) Professors actually began to study lenses in a detailed
way after the invention of the telescope.

C) There were too few scholars who had the necessary
skills to invent instruments that could improve human
vision.
D) Scholars were not willing to collaborate with each
other to invent optical devices.
E) People had a strongly-held belief in the superiority of
the naked eye.

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH

46. What is the main idea of the passage?
A) Like most other inventions in the modern world,
eyeglasses are the product of human wisdom and
struggle.
B) Despite being an important technological innovation,
the specifics related to the invention of eyeglasses
remain unknown.
C) Not all scientific projects lead to success despite the
concentrated efforts of academicians.
D) Scholars in the past were often against new
technologies, so they rarely used them even if they
enhanced the quality of their lives.
E) The etymology of the word lente gives us reliable
information about the inventor of the greatest
advancement in optical technology.

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH
47-50: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.
The annual melt of Arctic ice is under way, and the melt
is getting worse and worse. The size of the ice cap
where the melt is taking place has become the smallest
since satellite records began. It will not be many more
years until the Arctic is ice-free in summer. This is not
news. Nor is the fact that the US is about to break its
promise on its climate change policies, again. The scale
and speed of worrying events in the Arctic is increasing,
so is the recklessness of the current administration’s
climate policies. The two are closely connected: without
comprehensive, rapid, global action, there is zero
chance of preventing irreversible change in the Arctic,
which may bring catastrophe to the rest of the world.
What is also not-news is the antibiotic crisis. For years,
if not decades, medics have been warning that overuse
is driving up resistance, threating to propel us back to a
pre-penicillin age when common bacterial infections
could be fatal. Both are large, complex problems arising
from technological progress. Both are tragedies that
require collective action. But on antibiotic resistance,
there are signs that the problem is getting less severe,
thanks largely to changing prescription habits, following
great collective action, which is missing in the climate
change problem.

48. What is the author’s attitude towards the current US
administration’s climate policies?
A) impartial

B) dissatisfied

C) indifferent

D) appreciative
E) sarcastic

49. It is clearly stated in the passage that the antibiotic
crisis ----.
A) might have been alleviated thanks to the extensive
use penicillin
B) has diminished as a result of coordinated efforts to
raise awareness of the issue
C) could have been prevented if doctors had been
warned about it much earlier
D) is different from the climate change crisis in terms of
politicians’ level of sensitivity
E) can be tackled through the effective use of
technological developments

47. According to the passage, the Arctic melt ----.
A) has only recently been found to cause ice-free
summers in the Arctic soon
B) has finally led the US to keep its promise on its climate
change policies
C) was taking place at a faster pace before satellite
recordings began
D) will possibly result in worldwide devastation due to a
lack of sound climate policies
E) is one of the most immediate priorities of a large
number of governments worldwide

50. What is the main aim of the author in writing this
passage?
A) To emphasise the importance of collective action in
addressing major global problems
B) To show how carefully governments are trying to cope
with global issues
C) To criticise the US government’s policies on climate
change and the antibiotic crisis
D) To compare the methods used in the handling of the
antibiotic crisis and climate change
E) To highlight the incompetence of policy-makers in
combatting global tragedies

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH
51-54: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.
Child labour has traditionally referred to the use of
children to perform adult work on farms and in factories
and mines. Ironically, it has helped as well as hindered
the development of universal public education in the
United States. Historically, this problem did not become
a controversial social issue until the beginning of the
Industrial Revolution in the late 18th century. After a
series of wars produced a shortage of adult male labour
in Britain, cotton mill owners offered children free room
and meals in company-owned dormitories in exchange
for their labour. Government authorities were delighted
to get homeless children off the streets. For the mills,
the introduction of child labour proved one of the most
profitable innovations of the Industrial Revolution. The
practice spread to the United States, which also faced a
shortage of adult male factory workers to produce food
and tobacco, the staples of the new nation’s trade. At
the time, most schools were already reserved for the
children of landowners, and therefore, an entire
generation of child labourers had grown up illiterate by
the 1830s. As the quality of goods they produced
deteriorated and overseas sales of American goods
declined, many of the very industrialists who had
exploited child labour at the turn of the century joined
social reformers who wanted to end such exploitation,
supporting universal compulsory education to ensure
that their future workers would be able to read, write and
calculate.

52. What caused child labourers in the United States to
become illiterate?
A) They were supposed to contribute to the nation’s
economic growth, so factory-owners did not allow
them to go to school.
B) They believed that engaging in food and tobacco
production would bring them much more benefits than
attending school.
C) They did not have to learn to read and write to perform
simple tasks in factories.
D) Landowners did not want them to go to the schools
where their children were taught since they thought
this would cause a social conflict.
E) A great majority of the schools were only accepting the
children of landowners, so they could not receive
education.

53. What was the real reason why industrialists started
to promote universal compulsory education?
A) Child labour combined with compulsory education was
a practical option to cope with the shortage of adult
male factory workers.
B) Child labour eventually had an adverse impact on the
quality of American goods, which reduced export
earnings.

51. Why did child labour become an important issue
during the Industrial Revolution?
A) The number of homeless children in the streets
increased dramatically.
B) Government officials were reluctant to provide
homeless children with free room and meals.
C) The size of the labour force in Britain declined since
wars resulted in a lack of adult male workers.

C) Most of the child labourers were unable to read, write
and calculate, which was a disturbing fact for
industrialists in sociocultural terms.
D) Social reformers forced industrialists to acknowledge
the fact that children must be well-educated.
E) Social reformers were against the brutal exploitation of
child labour since children could not receive
compulsory education.

D) The development of universal public education was
enhanced by government authorities.
E) Children who worked for cotton mill owners could
earn a huge amount of money.

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH

54. What is the primary purpose of the author?
A) To explain the reasons why child labour was not as
effective in the United States as it was in Britain
B) To inform readers about how farms, factories and
mines throughout the world benefitted from child
labour in the late 1800s
C) To emphasise that farms, factories and mines would
not have been productive enough without child
labour during the Industrial Revolution
D) To highlight that child labour, initially considered
advantageous, later proved to be disadvantageous
E) To draw attention to the successful collaboration
between industrialists and social reformers to support
universal compulsory education

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH
55-58: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.
Earth is teeming with life — and water makes it all
possible. But elsewhere in the cosmos, life might be
built from different chemicals that dissolve and
assemble in some other liquid: perhaps methane,
kerosene, or even chloroform. For now, it is not feasible
for humans to set foot on those worlds and see what is
there, but researchers are exploring some possibilities
in labs here on Earth. The idea of a strange parallel
form of life, whose cells do the same basic things as
ours using a completely different chemistry, is not new
to science. In fact, Isaac Asimov broached the subject
in his 1962 essay “Not as We Know It: The Chemistry of
Life.” And in 2004, the same year the Cassini spacecraft
entered Saturn’s orbit, biochemist Steven Benner
proposed that on a world like Saturn’s moon Titan, life
might use liquid hydrocarbons as a solvent (a liquid that
can dissolve other substances), the way water is used
on Earth. With new exoplanets joining the roster of
known worlds every day, it is likely that some of them
have oceans (or at least warm puddles) of hexane,
ethers, chloroform, or other exotic liquids that might
serve as a source of life, which we do not yet know.

56. It is stated in the passage that Isaac Asimov ----.
A) led the way to discovery of several exoplanets that
host life-friendly exotic liquids such as hexane, ethers
and chloroform
B) was the first person to understand that a solvent
chemical, even if not water, is necessary for life to
develop
C) came up with the idea that life might have formed
elsewhere in the universe with a different chemistry
than we know
D) developed his thoughts about the strange parallel
forms of life using the data provided by the Cassini
spacecraft which studies Saturn
E) inspired Steve Benner who wrote in 2004 that liquid
hydrocarbons might make life possible on a world like
Saturn’s moon Titan

57. The underlined word in the passage ‘broached’ is
closest in meaning to ----.
55. According to the passage, chemicals such as
methane, kerosene and chloroform ----.
A) cannot be compared with water in their capacity to
dissolve life chemicals

A) introduced

B) distorted

C) revised

D) obscured
E) simplified

B) have been found on several exoplanets humans are
planning to set foot on
C) have been proved to be much better alternatives to
water, which makes life possible
D) could possibly be solvents of various chemicals that
form life
E) should be researched more extensively in order to
protect life on Earth

58. What is the passage mainly about?
A) The contributions of Asimov and Benner to the
understanding of life on Earth
B) The search for alternatives to water that can support
extraterrestrial life
C) The newly discovered exoplanets being studied to
determine if they potentially host life
D) The role of water as a solvent in the formation of life
on Earth
E) The chemical processes underlying the formation of
water on other planets

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH
59-62: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.
Companies often link pay increases to a measure
of performance to motivate and retain the best
employees, which may also ensure the companies’
long-term success. Among many forms of individual
performance-related pay, the most popular is
merit-based pay. Under such a system, an employee’s
pay increase is based on a supervisor’s assessment of
performance over a previous time period, usually the
prior 12 months. The annual cycle of the pay scheme
begins with the establishment of performance
objectives, either by the supervisor or jointly between
the employee and the supervisor. Progress is monitored
over the ensuing months, and the supervisor rates the
performance of an employee, on a given scale, against
these objectives. Each of these rating points is then
associated with the amount of a pay increase,
expressed as a percentage, so the higher the rating, the
higher the pay increase. The size of the pay increase
can also vary depending on the position in the pay
range. Typically, employees at the bottom of the pay
range with high-performance ratings will get a larger
increase than an employee near the top of the
pay range with a high-performance rating. In some
cases, the intention is to enable the employee to reach
the top of the pay range at the same time as he or she
is ready to be promoted. The difficulty is that this
system is not supported by all employees. Research
has demonstrated that merit-based pay is attractive
to some occupations, for example managers, and to
certain demographic groups, such as white-collar
workers, high-income earners, and younger employees,
but it might not be the best payment approach for all
occupations and companies.

60. It is understood from the passage that in the
merit-based pay system, ----.
A) supervisors’ strict control over employees may
backfire as weak performance
B) employees are allowed to rate their own performance
C) supervisors’ rating points determine the amount of the
pay increase
D) an employee gets a pay increase when his or her
performance is higher than those of others
E) employees may get a pay increase during the
supervision period

61. What can be concluded about a pay increase in the
merit-based pay system?
A) Younger employees may not get a high pay increase
since they may not compete well with experienced
ones.
B) Employees deserve a pay increase only if they have
gained the qualifications required for a promotion.
C) Companies try to keep the best employees at the
top of the pay range by providing them with the
highest pay increase.
D) No matter how hard they try, employees in the lowest
position cannot get a pay increase as high as that of
the ones who are at the top of the pay range.
E) Industrious employees with a low income may get a
higher percentage of pay increase than those
having a high income.

59. It is stated in the passage that companies ----.
A) can contribute to their future prosperity by motivating
their employees with a pay increase
B) use various forms of payment depending on the
importance of the position
C) evaluate their employees’ previous performance to lay
out future performance criteria
D) increase the motivation of their employees by setting
attainable performance objectives
E) should use individual performance-related pay to
motivate their non-efficient employees

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH

62. What is the drawback of the merit-based pay system
according to the passage?
A) Employees have no right to take part in the formulation
of performance criteria.
B) It is not efficient because it does not guarantee the
promotion of hard-working employees.
C) Rating points may not accurately reflect an employee’s
performance.
D) It may not be favoured by everyone since it benefits
certain positions and careers.
E) It does not help to assess employees’ monthly
performance since it is applied annually.

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH

63-67: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the dialogue.

63. Student:
 How do leaves know that it’s autumn?
Teacher:
 During the autumn, every day is four minutes
shorter than the one before it. This means leaves
have four minutes less sunlight.
Student:
 ---Teacher:
 Exactly! And, at some point, when it’s simply not
worth the effort, trees shed their leaves.
A) In other words, they have a relatively smaller amount
of time to change light and water into energy.
B) Does this mean some trees closest to streetlights
keep their leaves later into autumn?
C) But the decrease in the amount of sunlight is not the
sole reason, is it?
D) So, trees are very strong and in winter even produce
their own anti-freeze in their cells.
E) That’s because leaves can’t distinguish between
sunlight and artificial light, right?

64. Doctor:
 Most people don’t worry about their eye health,
but we often say that all of us need an eye test,
even if we can see fine.
Reporter:
 You’re right, but people generally don’t see a
doctor unless they have a problem with their
vision. So, could you tell us why you highlight the
importance of eye examinations?
Doctor:
 ---Reporter:
 It seems early diagnosis is crucial in fighting
some eye diseases.
A) If people would make a conscious effort to try to
understand their visual health through personal
research, many eye diseases would be less
problematic.
B) Eye tests not only help us treat visual impairment, but
they can also reveal the presence of some non-eye
diseases like diabetes and high blood pressure.
C) Many eye conditions show no symptoms, and if
people put off eye tests until they experience
symptoms like blurry vision, the damage could already
be irreversible.
D) The frequency of eye tests differs with age and the
health of the person, but we often recommend an eye
test every two years between ages 19 and 40.
E) Visual problems are not the single cause. People
should also have an eye test when they experience
redness, pain, discharge or flashes of light.

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH

65. Daisy:
 Look at the lighthouse over there. It’s on a very
steep hill. Do you think there is someone in it?
Kate:
 ---Daisy:
 Perhaps the huge antenna on the roof can explain
that.
Kate:
 So, the lighthouse-keeper just goes there
for periodic maintenance of the equipment.
A) I’m not certain. Some modern installations are
controlled remotely from a convenient location.
B) I can’t say for sure, but it seems there is no one there.
Otherwise, the lights would be on.
C) Probably! Lighthouses usually overlook the sea from a
coastal hill and provide a safe shelter for the residents.
D) Yes, and I’m really curious about daily routines of a
lighthouse-keeper. Watching the ships must be
entertaining.
E) I don’t think so. Lighthouses guide ships with a strong
light, so why should they be attended?

66. Amanda:
 Don't you think people attach too much of their
personal happiness to their weight?
Jane:
 Definitely! They're even willing to spend huge
sums of money for the slightest chance of being
thinner, especially overweight people and the
ones who suffer from obesity.
Amanda:
 Yeah, but so many of them get frustrated in the
process because it's more complicated than it
looks.
Jane:
 What do you mean?
Amanda:
 ---Jane:
 Oh, so dietary advice won't work in the same way
for everybody.
A) The vast majority of people place such a high value on
being thin that overweight people face prejudice and
discrimination.
B) The view that undisciplined eating habits are the major
cause of weight gain has been widespread for a long
time.
C) Fortunately, dieticians have been coming up with a
variety of new treatments to fight unhealthy weight
gain.
D) The reality is weight-gain has many causes and there
can be various combinations of these causes in
different people.
E) Permanent lifestyle changes like making healthy food
choices can promote long-term weight loss.

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH

67. Chris:
 A group of scientists tried to develop drones that
could fly through the hoops or gates used in
drone racing, and prepared a track with gates laid
out in a circuit.
Luke:
 Really? Were their drones able to stay on course?
Chris:
 ---Luke:
 That’s a key development. A drone that can
autonomously escape from things in its way could
be useful in a number of contexts.
A) The on-board camera in each device gathered images
of the gates and the pictures allowed a neural network
controlling drones to learn how to pass through them.
B) If they were smarter, they could be relied on to deliver
packages in complex environments like cities.
C) The study revealed that they had to come up with
better ways for drones to learn to avoid obstacles as
they fly.

68-71: For these questions, choose the best
rephrased form of the given sentence.

68. The invention of television was not a single event,
but rather it depended on a chain of developments
in electricity, telegraphy, and photography.
A) Though seeming as a distinct event, the invention of
television had to wait for several developments in
electricity, telegraphy, and photography.
B) A variety of developments in electricity, telegraphy,
and photography gave rise to the invention of
television, which was seen as a remarkable event.
C) Television did not come about all by itself, as a series
of innovations in electricity, telegraphy, and
photography led to its invention.
D) But for the innovations in electricity, telegraphy, and
photography, the invention of television could not have
occurred as a spectacular event.
E) Television developed as a specific invention; however,
a set of developments in electricity, telegraphy, and
photography became more important than its
invention.

D) Drones have a habit of crashing, so they planned to
alter the position of these obstacles after each lap.
E) Their performance in simulated experiments does not
guarantee success in real life. It’s early to say that a
drone can pilot itself in environments with lots of
obstacles like disaster zones.

69. The system of logic, formulated by Aristotle and
considered to include the laws that govern thought,
remained unaltered until the 19th century.
A) The 19th century witnessed a change in the system of
logic, which was created by Aristotle after he defined
the laws that govern thought.
B) Throughout the 19th century, the system of logic
developed by Aristotle was believed to involve the
laws that govern thought.
C) It was only in the 19th century that the system of logic,
established by Aristotle and believed to include the
laws that govern thought, began to change.
D) In the 19th century, the system of logic, which was
drawn up by Aristotle, went through a change because
the laws that govern thought started to change as well.
E) Aristotle is considered to have developed the system
of logic, which embraces the laws that govern thought
and has not been changed since the 19th century.

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH

70. Because eating disorders are neither purely physical
nor purely psychological, medical management and
psychotherapy should be combined for effective
treatment.
A) While eating disorders can be separated into physical
and psychological ones, successful treatment requires
a combination of medical intervention and
psychotherapy.
B) Eating disorders can be treated effectively with
medical intervention or psychotherapy, based on
whether they are mostly physical or psychological.
C) To treat eating disorders effectively, regardless of their
classification as physical or psychological, medical
management should be accompanied by
psychotherapy.
D) Given that eating disorders cannot be classified as
only physical or psychological, effective treatment
should include both medical intervention and
psychotherapy.
E) Since eating disorders are not only physical
but psychological as well, psychotherapy should be
administered more often than medical management to
treat them successfully.

71. In the 1950s, popular demand for more powerful
cars was met by manufacturers by further
increasing the size of the engine and the rotation
speed, although these changes were at the expense
of fuel economy.
A) In the 1950s, powerful cars with larger engines and
faster rotation speed had a negative impact on fuel
economy, so people wanted manufacturers to produce
cars that would be fuel-efficient.
B) Had there been no attempt by manufacturers in the
1950s to increase the size of the engine and the
rotation speed, people might not have demanded
more powerful cars, and thus fuel economy would
have remained stable.
C) Even though it led to less economical fuel use, in the
1950s, manufacturers started to make bigger engines
and increase the rotation speed to persuade people
into buying cars that would become more powerful.
D) People started to seek more powerful cars in the
1950s, and manufacturers responded to this by
making engines bigger and the rotation speed faster,
while it meant damaging the fuel economy.
E) In the 1950s, manufacturers met people’s demand for
more powerful cars by making the engine bigger and
the rotation speed faster, but they were not able to
predict that it would result in a worse fuel economy.

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH
72-75: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the missing part of the
passage.
72. Unlike learning a second language, acquiring a first
or native language does not require systematic
instruction. Parents usually do not teach children
the rules of language or do not tell them what kinds
of sentences they can and cannot say. ---- For
example, English speaking children might continue
to say bringed rather than brought even though
parents occasionally correct them.
A) Parents' corrections inform children of what is not
possible in the language they are exposed to.
B) Although parents generally do not correct their
children, corrections can improve the children's
language.
C) Children are rarely corrected, and even when they are,
they resist the correction.
D) Children often take advantage of parents' correction
and reformulate their utterances.
E) If children ask a question, parents will hardly check for
its grammatical correctness.

73. Wilhelm Röntgen was born in Germany, but lived in
the Netherlands for part of his childhood. He studied
mechanical engineering in Zurich before becoming
a lecturer in physics at Strasbourg University in
1874, and a professor two years later. He took senior
positions at several universities during his career.
---- However, in the world of science, he is best
known for his research into X-rays, and in 1901, he
was awarded the first Nobel Prize in Physics for this
work.
A) Röntgen was always shy of having an assistant, and
he usually preferred to work alone and built much of
the apparatus he used by himself.
B) By 1900, Röntgen’s discovery of high energy
electromagnetic radiation in the form of X-rays was
being used in medical diagnosis.
C) Röntgen studied many different areas of physics,
including light, gases, heat transfer, and thermal
conductivity of crystals.
D) In his laboratory in Germany, Röntgen discovered
X-rays by accident while he was studying the
conduction of electricity through gases at low
pressure.
E) Despite the numerous prizes, medals and honorary
doctorates he had, Röntgen retained the
characteristics of a strikingly modest man.

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH

74. There is a new milk in town; there are many,
actually. The old alternatives to cow’s milk – soy,
rice, and coconut milk – are now joined on grocery
shelves by alternative milks made from almonds,
peanuts, cashews, oats, peas – the list goes on and
on. You can even buy milk made from potatoes or
bananas. ---- But is that really true? Almond and
cashew milks have less than half the calories found
in cow’s milk, but are lower in protein. For those
with allergies to nuts, banana milk is the way to go,
but it can be difficult to find. Each type of alternative
milk has its benefits and limitations. You should
decide what is most important to you – nutrition,
sustainability, or allergies.
A) Alternative milks are only healthy if combined with a
well-balanced diet, though the same is true of cow’s
milk.
B) Manufacturers have recently begun to position such
products as a reasonable alternative.
C) Alternative milks vary greatly in their nutritional value,
and while some have a mild flavour, others have a
stronger taste.
D) Most alternative milks are friendlier to the environment
than dairy products, as the carbon footprint of
producing, packaging and transporting cow’s milk is
very high.
E) However, people do not drink alternative milks for their
nutritional benefits; instead, they tend to use them for
their coffee or cereal.

75. Much of what archaeologists know about past
human life is uncertain and partial. For example,
archaeologists argue about the dates that human
life began and changed. New discoveries constantly
force scientists to rethink the dating given to major
developments in human prehistory. Even the
primary method of identifying the age of
discoveries, known as radiocarbon dating, is
subject to second-guessing. Often different sources
have different dates. Another difficulty is that there
are simply not many sources of evidence about early
human life. ---- Because of these difficulties, much
of what is known about prehistoric man is based on
the best guesses of scientists who may have
devoted their life’s work to the subject.
A) The older the historical remains, the more valuable
and surprising they are to archaeologists.
B) Archaeologists must form their picture of early life
based on small sets of discovered materials separated
by both time and distance.
C) Another form of evidence comes from early rock
paintings and etchings that have depicted human
clothes, hair, and body decoration.
D) Archaeologists must carefully dig the remnants of the
human past from out of the earth.
E) The problem of understanding the clothing of early
humans is even more difficult by the fragile nature
of fur.

Go on to the next page

2019-YDS/2/ENGLISH

76-80: For these questions, choose the irrelevant
sentence in the passage.

76. (I) Astronomers are searching for twins of Earth orbiting
other sunlike stars. (II) Yet, the more closely scientists
study our own planet's habitability, the less ideal our
world appears to be. (III) Detecting Earth-like twins
remains at the edge of our technical capabilities.
(IV) Larger super-Earths orbiting smaller stars are easier
to detect and may be the most common type of planet.
(V) New thinking suggests that these systems may also
be habitable and more conducive to life than our own
planet.
A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V

77. (I) The world of plants is rich and diversified and
produces numerous herbal remedies that have been
used for thousands of years. (II) A qualified herbalist and
a well-respected herbal guide or specialist are generally
expected to be conferred with for the most effective
herbal treatments. (III) Today, modern scientific research
continues to document and validate the historical
traditional uses of many herbs as well as new uses of
some traditional medicines. (IV) The safe and
responsible use of traditional herbal medicines offers an
important way to lower health care costs and increase
the wellness of the public. (V) It is most likely that more
scientific research will continue to place herbs in a
position to offer many benefits in the new medicine of
the 21st century.
A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V

79. (I) Both students and teachers may consult grammar
books for a number of reasons. (II) For example,
students may be drafting a piece of written work and
may want to check if they are using some grammar
rules correctly. (III) Alternatively, a teacher, having
noticed that a student is making a lot of mistakes in one
particular area, might tell that student to look up the
language in a grammar book to understand it better.
(IV) There are a large number of grammar books
available, most of which are criticised by students for
including highly difficult grammar exercises. (V) When it
comes to teachers, they often use grammar books to
check grammar concepts, especially when an area is so
complex that they need to re-visit it from time to time to
remind themselves of the full picture.
A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V

80. (I) The ancient Olympic Games, known to us from
ancient literature and art and from modern archaeology,
were the oldest and most prestigious athletic
competition of antiquity. (II) Although they have inspired
the modern Olympics, the ancient games must be seen
in their own ancient Greek cultural context. (III) Despite
common misperceptions, the ancient Olympics differed
from their modern counterpart in organisation, events,
and ideology. (IV) The permanent home of the ancient
Olympics was an isolated religious sanctuary on the
Alpheios River in the territory of the state of Elis in
southwestern Greece. (V) With sacred rituals and
wreaths of olive leaves as prizes, the ancient Olympic
Games were part of a great religious festival in honour
of Zeus, the Greeks’ chief god.
A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V

78. (I) Water is one of the essential natural resources that
have been the centre of attention in the last century due
to pollution and excessive consumption, particularly in
the developed world. (II) Water itself does not conduct
electricity particularly well, yet it is the chemicals
dissolved in it that are the source of the trouble.
(III) For example, the salt content of seawater makes it a
million times better at conducting electricity than
ultra-pure water. (IV) Even so, even a trace of water can
prove fatal with high voltages. (V) This is the very reason
why people have been killed thinking they can move live
cables using a freshly broken tree branch.
A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V