1-6: For these questions, choose the best word or
expression to fill the space.

4. As the DNA of two unrelated people only differs by
about one in every 1,000 base pairs, humans show
---- little genetic diversity.

1. Twenty-five hundred years ago, ancient Greek
philosophers turned their highly sophisticated
---- away from the whims of the gods and toward
questions of the natural world.
A) inquiries

B) fallacies

C) incentives

D) complaints

A) remarkably

B) elaborately

C) ambiguously

D) sufficiently
E) promptly

E) precautions

5. Biologists have created a molecule that ---- the
connections between brain cells, called neurons,
acting exactly like the steel bars in reinforced
concrete.

2. The mission control experts cannot tell if the space
junk is going to hit the space station or not, but they
are sure that a ---- would knock a hole in the body
and cause all air inside it to quickly escape into
space.
A) succession

B) collision

C) conversion

D) fluctuation

A) penetrates

B) overcomes

C) implements

D) fortifies
E) receives

E) deviation

6. Internet users are increasingly ---- cyberchondria, a
mental condition in which easy access to
information on medical issues causes increased
feelings of anxiety over health.

3. While newspapers have been in dramatic decline in
much of the developed West, the industry is ---- and
still growing in many of Asia’s booming cities.
A) fragile

B) profitable

C) confidential

D) peculiar

A) making up for

B) cutting down on

C) getting away with

D) looking around for

E) coming down with

E) notorious

1

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH

7-16: For these questions, choose the best
word(s) or expression(s) to fill the space(s).

9. Wall paintings previously ---- in three Spanish caves
have now been dated to 65,000 years ago – some
20,000 years before Homo sapiens is thought ---- in
Europe.

7. So far, only two types of mental exertion ---- to
improve overall cognitive ability: one is musical
training, the other is learning a new language or
practising a second one you ----.

A) to have been discovered / to arrive
B) being discovered / having arrived

A) were shown / will have already learned

C) discovered / to have arrived

B) had been shown / have already been learning

D) having been discovered / to be arriving

C) have been shown / have already learned

E) to be discovered / arriving

D) will be shown / already learned
E) are shown / had already learned

10. A compound called ‘hyloins’ that can be found in
the frog's lymph and skin glands increases the
frog's brightness ---- around 20 percent ---- a full
moon.

8. If an age could ever be rightly described as ‘dark’ in
European history, it ---- the two centuries that ---- the
collapse of Roman authority in Britain at the
beginning of the fifth century.

A) by / during

B) in / under

C) at / over

D) to / along

A) may be / follow

E) from / through

B) would be / followed
C) used to be / had followed
D) must be / have followed
E) had to be / were following

11. The scientific study of the dynamic relationship ---the celestial bodies of the solar system and the
motion of human-made objects ---- outer space,
such as spacecraft and satellites, is called orbital
mechanics.
A) about / on

B) between / at

C) with / of

D) among / in
E) beyond / without

2

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH

12. ---- electricity and heat account for 41 percent of
global carbon dioxide emissions today, curbing
climate change will require satisfying that much
demand with renewables rather than fossil fuels.

15. Finding ammonia on the surface of Pluto could be a
hint of more complex organic chemistry on the
planet, although it is ---- cold ---- there is almost
definitely no life there.

A) Since

B) While

A) not only / but also

B) both / and

C) Until

D) Unless

C) neither / nor

D) such / that

E) As if

E) so / that

13. ---- all dogs show signs of having ‘theory of mind’,
which enables them to grasp that we think
differently from them, it is unlikely that they are
capable of extending this to knowing the reason
why one person behaves differently to another.
A) In case

B) Only if

C) As far as

D) Given that

16. ---- the Sun’s constant stream of energy, water
molecules are continually evaporating from the
surfaces of oceans and lakes, adding to the water
vapour in the air.
A) Rather than

B) Thanks to

C) As opposed to

D) In terms of

E) Unlike

E) Even though

14. ---- there are hundreds of school- and
community-based aggression prevention and social
skills promotion programmes, only a handful of
these appear to be effective.
A) Provided that

B) Since

C) Although

D) Just as
E) Unless

3

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH
17-21: For these questions, choose the best
word or expression to fill the spaces in the
passage.

19.

The first civilisations emerged in areas where high
agricultural productivity was possible, supporting dense
populations. In the Old World, they appeared (17)---- the
rivers in Mesopotamia, northern India, Egypt and
northern China. Craft specialisation developed, trade
flourished, writing began, and rulers were often given
elaborate burials. (18)----, each civilisation also had
unique features rooted in its own cultural background
and environment. Life in Ancient Egypt evolved around
the Nile, which provided a regular water supply and
fertile soils and thus, (19)---- the surrounding desert
regions, made agricultural production possible.
Navigation on the river was easy, as boats (20)---northwards with the current. From the 5th millennium
BC, farming communities on the banks of the Nile
gradually began to merge into a cultural, political and
economic unit. This process of unification was (21)---- by
trading contacts and the need to control the floodwaters
of the Nile. To reap the benefits of the yearly flooding of
the river, communities had to work together to build
dams and flood basins.

A) in terms of

B) thanks to

C) in place of

D) by contrast with
E) by means of

20.
A) could travel
B) ought to travel
C) may have travelled
D) must have travelled
E) would have travelled

21.

17.
A) at

B) into

A) abandoned

B) distributed

C) with

D) along

C) encouraged

D) overlooked
E) threatened

E) toward

18.
A) Instead

B) However

C) For instance

D) Otherwise
E) That is

4

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH
22-26: For these questions, choose the best
word or expression to fill the spaces in the
passage.

24.

Colliding tankers, damaged platforms and pipelines, as
well as the release of residual oil from oil tanks, are
potential causes for catastrophes. Pictures of dying
seabirds show the (22)---- of such environmental
damage. Yet, not all environmental hazards are this
obvious. Water pollution (23)---- by the uncontrolled use
of pesticides and heavy metals, such as mercury, lead,
cadmium, and zinc, largely remains unnoticed. The
dangerous prior assumption that the oceans could
naturally purify themselves (24)---- limit has caused
possibly irreparable damage. Not only the oceans, but
many creeks, rivers, and lakes have also suffered from
human interference. Many lakes have become polluted
(25)---- the chemicals added by household wastewater
and the overfertilisation with phosphates in agriculture.
(26)----, unknown effluents from industry and acid rain
add to the acidification of water bodies, which
contributes to the decrease of biodiversity.

A) from

B) upon

C) against

D) for
E) without

25.
A) except for

B) because of

C) contrary to

D) rather than
E) in pursuit of

22.
A) improvement

B) extent

C) suspension

D) eradication

26.

E) release

A) For instance

B) Therefore

C) Even so

D) Moreover
E) Instead

23.
A) having triggered
B) triggered
C) to have been triggered
D) triggering
E) to have triggered

5

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH

27-36: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the given sentence.

29. As more people suffer from insecure attachment
styles in their relationships with others, ----.
A) they feel that they do not need their belongings to
survive anymore

27. Because there has been growing public awareness
regarding cultural and ethnic differences around the
world, ----.

B) seeing possessions as an extension of themselves
starts to decrease

A) tourists, who search for unfamiliar environments and
cultures, also search for familiar facilities available for
them

C) the needs for security are more complex than just the
basics for physical survival
D) possessions do not make them feel secure by
substituting for the loved ones

B) the true cultural heritage of the host society maintains
its integrity by keeping tourists on the other side of the
curtain

E) the behaviour of seeking emotional comfort from
material objects is likely to rise

C) culture is seen as a dynamic living concept and
changes continually in order to embrace the needs of
present-day society
D) it has been argued that so-called authenticity of
culture is a fleeting movement in the development
calendar
E) there has been increasing demand for tourism
products that offer cultural authenticity rather than
standard concepts

30. While mainstream cultural artefacts (films, books,
fashion, etc.) produced specifically for and about
girls have been popular for more than two centuries,
----.
A) academic research on girls and their complex
relationship with girl culture is still fairly new to the
communication discipline
B) early research on this topic tended to focus on girls as
audiences and as vulnerable to the effects of mass
culture

28. Although all archaeologists agree that keeping
careful records of an excavation is essential to good
practice, ----.

C) communication scholars examining girl culture today
have been greatly influenced by girls’ or girlhood
studies

A) there is a close relationship between their
interpretation and that of archaeological museums
B) they are concerned with the activities of people and
nature that create evidence of a cultural past

D) a new area that is mainly interested in how girls
actively negotiate and even resist these cultural
artefacts is needed

C) artefacts, sculptures and drawings found in caves help
them learn about early humans

E) many researchers have examined the Internet as a
space fostering girls’ self-expression and community
building

D) many mapping techniques developed for use on land
have also been adapted for underwater archaeology
E) there is no certain consensus on what exactly
constitutes archaeological data

6

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH

31. When bacteria sense that their numbers have
reached a critical threshold, ----.

33. ----, few realise that moderate to vigorous physical
activity done regularly completely changes our
bodies from the inside out.

A) the drugs that will interrupt this process are still being
researched

A) Since regular movement prevents certain cancers and
lowers the risk of diabetes

B) they switch on the production of substances that
attack their human host

B) As scientists have developed methods for measuring
intensity of aerobic exercise

C) we are not still sure about how to prevent them from
increasing in number

C) While most people inherently know that they are
supposed to leave sedentary habits

D) some are mostly resistant to many common
antibiotics, making an infection hard to treat

D) Although many are not aware that being physically
active expands lung capacity

E) plant products have been reported to have no
significant effect on their growth

E) Unless prolonged sitting denies people some of the
health advantages of regular exercise

32. It may be a long time before scientists can confirm
that biological life exists in places other than Earth,
----.

34. ----, food shortages will be inevitable, leading to
mass starvation and unrest.

A) but recent discovery of tiny life forms in some extreme
conditions and inhospitable environments has raised
hopes

A) Because many governments are committed to
avoiding a reduction in farming subsidies and financial
speculation nowadays

B) as scientists have long known that amino acids and
nucleotides, the main ingredients for building proteins
and DNA, can be found in meteors and comets

B) Unless a solution to the dramatic increase in world
population and the demand for food is found
C) While the growing population in some parts of the
world increasingly demand a more varied diet

C) while it takes a lot of intellectual effort on the part of
ordinary people to understand the dynamics of life in
outer space

D) Since the increase in oil prices has appeared in many
developing nations in the last several decades

D) though professional associations informing the public
about microbial life in space have not been very
successful

E) If worldwide drought, which affects wide territories, is
seen as the consequence of climate change

E) so the discovery of the bacteria in Antarctica, which
live by extracting nutrition from the air, indicates that
life can thrive without complex organic material

7

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH
37-42: For these questions, choose the most
accurate Turkish translation of the sentences in
English, and the most accurate English translation
of the sentences in Turkish.

35. The consequences of eating disorders need to be
taken seriously, ----.
A) whereas there is growing interest in and worry about
their potential risks and treatment methods

37. Because volcanic activity has usually been
extremely violent and destructive, in the past there
were some cultures believing that eruptions and
tremblings had to be the fault of humans.

B) while evidence is now emerging that they occur in a
wide range of socioeconomic groups
C) given that they might increase one’s risk of developing
conditions such as high blood pressure and diabetes

A) Volkanik faaliyetler genellikle aşırı derecede şiddetli ve
yıkıcı oldukları için geçmişte patlamaların ve
sarsılmaların insanların hatasından kaynaklandığını
düşünen bazı kültürler vardı.

D) though clinical depression and anxiety disorders have
been reported to commonly co-occur with eating
disorders

B) Volkanik faaliyetlerin genellikle aşırı derecede şiddetli
ve yıkıcı olmasından dolayı geçmişte bazı kültürler
patlamaların ve sarsılmaların insanların hatasından
kaynaklandığına inanıyordu.

E) so patients who engage in binge eating, which is
highly associated with obesity, suffer from numerous
health issues

C) Genellikle aşırı derecede şiddetli ve yıkıcı olan
volkanik faaliyetler yüzünden geçmişte yaşanan
patlamaların ve sarsılmaların insanların hatasından
kaynaklandığına inanan bazı kültürler vardı.
D) Geçmişte patlamaların ve sarsılmaların insanların
hatasından kaynaklandığına inanan kültürler
olmasının sebebi, bazı volkanik faaliyetlerin genellikle
son derece şiddetli ve yıkıcı olmasıydı.

36. Most classic research indicates that it is extremely
difficult to identify boys from girls on behavioural
grounds when children are under two years of age
----.

E) Geçmişte patlamaların ve sarsılmaların insanların
hatasından kaynaklandığına inanan bazı kültürlerin
olması, volkanik faaliyetlerin genellikle son derece
şiddetli ve yıkıcı olmasından kaynaklanıyordu.

A) unless there are some external cultural indicators of
gender such as clothing
B) so that the impact of gender in young children’s lives
could be examined in great detail
C) if young children know about gender and acquire
gendered ways of being and thinking from an early
age
D) given that preschool children often actively maintain
gender stereotypes in their own behaviours and that of
their peers
E) because there has recently been a focus on how boys
and girls play with the toys they choose

8

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH

38. According to a recent report, early adopters of
enterprise artificial intelligence have shown a bigger
improvement in productivity and performance
compared to those that have yet to explore this
exciting new field.

39. One of the biggest difficulties of a manager is
possibly demonstrating leadership in a context
where those being directed neither believe they
need to be organised, nor are motivated to
cooperate with the administration.

A) Yeni bir rapora göre, yapay zekâ girişimini önceden
benimseyenler, bu heyecan verici yeni alanı henüz
keşfetmemiş olanlara kıyasla verimlilik ve performans
bakımından daha büyük bir gelişme göstermiştir.

A) Bir yönetici için muhtemelen en büyük zorluklardan
biri, yönetilenlerin ya organize edilmeleri gerektiğine
inanmadıkları ya da yönetimle işbirliği yapmaya istekli
olmadıkları bir ortamda liderlik göstermektir.

B) Yeni hazırlanan bir rapora göre, yapay zekâ girişimini
daha keşfetmemiş olanların aksine, bu heyecan verici
yeni alanı önceden kullanmaya başlayanlar verimlilik
ve performans konularında daha çok ilerleme
kaydetmiştir.

B) Bir yöneticinin en büyük zorluklarından biri
muhtemelen, yönetilenlerin ne organize edilmeleri
gerektiğine inandıkları ne de yönetimle işbirliği
yapmaya istekli oldukları bir ortamda liderlik
göstermektir.

C) Yeni bir rapora göre, yeni ve heyecan verici yapay
zekâ girişimini önceden benimseyenlerin, bu alanı
henüz keşfetmeyenlere göre, verimlilik ve performans
açısından çok daha fazla ilerleme kaydettiği
görülmüştür.

C) Bir yöneticinin yaşayabileceği en büyük zorluklardan
biri muhtemelen, organize edilmeye ihtiyaç
duymayanların ve yönetimle işbirliği yapmayanların
olduğu bir ortamda liderlik göstermektir.
D) Bir yönetici olmanın muhtemel en büyük zorluğu,
yönetilenlerin organize edilme gereksinimi
duymadıkları için yönetimle işbirliği yapmaya istekli
olmadığı bir ortamda liderlik göstermektir.

D) Yeni hazırlanan bir rapor, yapay zekâ girişimini
önceden edinenlerin, bu heyecan verici yeni alanı
keşfetmeyenlerle karşılaştırıldığında verimlilik ve
performans bakımından daha fazla gelişme ortaya
koyduğunu göstermiştir.

E) Bir yöneticinin yaşayabileceği en büyük zorluk
muhtemelen, yönetilenleri ne organize olmaya
inandırabildiği ne de yönetimle işbirliği yapmaya
motive edebildiği bir ortamda liderlik göstermektir.

E) Yeni bir rapor, yapay zekâ girişimini önceden
benimseyenlerde verimlilik ve performans alanındaki
gelişmelerin bu yeni ve heyecan verici alanı
keşfetmeyenlere kıyasla daha fazla olduğunu
göstermiştir.

9

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH

40. Koalalar yüksek miktarlarda su içeren okaliptus
yapraklarıyla beslenirler, bu yüzden nadiren su
içmeye ihtiyaç duyarlar ve böylelikle yerdeki
yırtıcılardan kurtulmuş olarak ağaçlarda uzun saatler
kalabilirler.

41. Dünya, 66 milyon yıl önce dinozorların neslini
tükettiği düşünülen ve sıcaklıkları 5ºC'ye kadar
artıran bir asteroid etkisinden kaynaklanan sıcak bir
dönem geçirmiştir.
A) The Earth underwent a hot period that stemmed from
an asteroid impact thought to have wiped out the
dinosaurs 66 million years ago and caused
temperatures to rise by 5ºC.

A) Koalas feed on eucalyptus leaves that consist of high
amounts of water, and as a result, they rarely need to
drink water, which means they can stay in trees for
long hours, away from predators on land.

B) A hot period experienced by the Earth is thought to
have caused the extinction of the dinosaurs 66 years
ago leading to an asteroid impact with a 5ºC increase
in temperatures.

B) Because koalas eat eucalyptus leaves that have
excessive amounts of water, they hardly need to drink
water and thus they can stay in trees for long hours,
away from predators on land.

C) The extinction of the dinosaurs is thought to have
resulted from the 5ºC rise in the temperatures during
the hot period due to an asteroid impact the Earth
experienced 66 million years ago.

C) Koalas feed on eucalyptus leaves that contain high
amounts of water, so they hardly need to drink water,
and therefore they can stay in trees for long hours,
safe from predators on land.

D) A hot period is thought to have dominated the Earth,
wiping out the dinosaurs 66 million years ago after a
5ºC increase in the temperatures together with an
asteroid impact.

D) Eucalyptus leaves that koalas feed on are composed
of excessive amounts of water, so they rarely need to
drink water and thus they can stay in trees for long
hours, which keeps them away from predators on
land.

E) The Earth underwent a hot period with the influence of
the dinosaurs that became extinct 66 million years ago
with an asteroid impact, resulting in the rising of the
temperatures by 5ºC.

E) Koalas rely on eucalyptus leaves for nourishment, and
since they have high amounts of water, koalas
scarcely need to drink water, and consequently, they
can stay in trees for long hours, free from predators on
land.

10

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH

42. Avustralya’daki bir çocuk hastanesinde çalışan
uzmanlar, bazı insanların 20’li yaşlarına kadar
büyümeye devam ettiğine dair pek çok kanıt ortaya
koyarak ergenliğin bittiği kabul edilen yaşın 19’dan
24’e çıkarılması gerektiğini öne sürmektedir.
A) Experts working at a children’s hospital in Australia
suggest that the recognised age at which adolescence
ends should be raised to 24 from 19, revealing plenty
of evidence that some people keep growing into their
20s.
B) Experts working at a children’s hospital in Australia
have provided plenty of evidence that some people
keep growing into their 20s, and therefore they claim
that the recognised age at which adolescence ends
should be raised to 24 from 19.
C) The recognised age at which adolescence ends is 19,
but experts working at a children’s hospital in Australia
claim that it should be raised to 24, providing lots of
evidence that some people keep growing into their
20s.
D) Provided that there is abundant evidence suggesting
that some people keep growing into their 20s, experts
working at a children’s hospital in Australia point out
that the recognised age at which adolescence ends,
which is 19, should be raised to 24.
E) The claim that the recognised age at which
adolescence ends should be raised to 24 from 19 has
been made by the experts working at a children’s
hospital in Australia, who have revealed plenty of
evidence that some people keep growing into their
20s.

11

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH
43-46: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

44. What can be concluded from the passage about the
initial period of life?
A) children who are shy during this period will be shy
throughout their lives no matter what they do.

Most people, from those who are fond of living alone to
the rich and famous, probably have experienced
feelings of shyness at various times in their lives.
Physiological symptoms may include blushing,
increased heart rate, sweating, and shaking. Just as
these outward manifestations vary in type and intensity
from person to person, so do the inner feelings. Anxious
thoughts and worries, low self-esteem, self-criticism,
and concern over a lack of social skills, real or
imagined, are common. Nevertheless, the causes of
shyness are not known. Some researchers believe it
results from a genetic predisposition. Others theorize
that uncommunicative parents restrict a child’s
development of the social skills that compensate for
discomfort caused by new experiences and people,
resulting in shyness. Variously, it has been considered a
symptom of social phobia or a simple characteristic of
introversion. Psychological research that follows large
numbers of children from very early childhood to
adulthood has found that a tendency to be shy with
others is one of the most stable traits that is preserved
from the first three or four years of life through young
adulthood. Learning or improving social skills through
self-help courses or formal training in assertiveness and
public speaking are some of the methods used to
diminish the effects of shyness.

B) If children are shy with others during this period, they
should be observed psychologically.
C) It might be highly influential on whether a person will
be shy in later life.
D) It is not easy to overcome shyness during this period
because personality traits do not change until young
adulthood.
E) It is the period when children should learn some
self-help techniques to overcome their shyness.

45. It could be inferred from the passage that ----.
A) shyness is most likely to be seen among children
whose parents were shy in their childhood
B) it can be the parents who are responsible for shyness
due to their parenting style or the genetic
characteristics they pass on to their children
C) shyness could be considered a form of social phobia,
so medical help should be sought to eliminate it
D) the psychological effects of shyness can be intense if
physiological symptoms are accompanied by inner
thoughts

43. The author clearly states that shyness ----.
A) is a widespread phenomenon likely to be experienced
by people from different walks of life

E) although we do not know the causes of shyness for
sure, it is easy to get rid of this condition

B) makes itself clear through several symptoms that are
unvaryingly seen
C) is generally accompanied by some inner feelings
caused by imaginary conditions
D) is a psychological condition which is caused by
several well-known triggers
E) can be detected by others easily as most of its
symptoms are visible

12

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH

46. What is the purpose of the author of this passage?
A) To elaborate on the impact of genetic factors on
shyness
B) To report the findings of recent research into the
effects and triggers of shyness
C) To give the reader some advice on how to overcome
shyness
D) To give brief information about the symptoms and
possible causes of shyness
E) To discuss whether shyness is a challenging
psychological problem

13

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH
47-50: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

48. It can be inferred from the passage that in Latin
America, ----.
A) the abolishment of slavery aroused such problems as
social inequality and political instability

During the 19th century, in most of Central and South
America, a large majority of the population was of
African origin. Most were slaves working on plantations,
producing crops such as sugar and coffee for European
consumers. Slavery was abolished gradually in varying
degrees in Central and South America starting in the
early 1800s, with Brazil being the last country to outlaw
slavery in 1888. After abolition, freed slaves often joined
the lower strata of hierarchical societies in which poverty
and inequality were made worse by unfair land
redistribution. In Latin America, independence did not
lead to widespread prosperity or good government, but
merely to imbalance of power and economic inequality.
Military dictatorships were common, as were wars and
civil conflicts. Meanwhile, Brazil experienced a ‘rubber
boom’ from the 1880s, which fuelled an unprecedented
economic expansion in Latin America thanks to the
extraction and commercialisation of wild rubber from the
jungles of the Amazon. However, development was
entirely based on investment from Europe and North
America, and was largely designed to serve the needs
of the industrialised countries, not the local people.

B) military dictatorships were a big obstacle to the
economic development of most countries
C) rapid growth was mainly due to political achievements
and successful management of social conflicts
D) the welfare of citizens greatly improved in most
countries after the abolishment of slavery
E) freed slaves were not allowed to purchase land for a
long time even after the abolishment of slavery

49. According to the passage, which of the following is
true about Brazil’s rubber boom?
A) The needs of Brazilian people were secondary to
those of industrialised countries.
B) Local people played a more dominant role in the boom
when compared to European and American investors.

47. It is understood from the passage that during the
19th century, ----.

C) It was developed for the local people of Brazil to help
them escape poverty.

A) most slaves in Latin American countries were able to
become part of the ruling and wealthy classes once
they gained independence

D) It was not as successful as European and American
investors had estimated.

B) most of the crops produced by slaves were sold to
local consumers in Latin America

E) It was the underlying cause of many wars and civil
conflicts in the area.

C) the abolishment of slavery did not happen at the same
time and rate in Central and South America
D) many Latin American countries began to abolish
slavery after Brazil outlawed it
E) there had been no serious attempts to outlaw slavery
in Latin America until 1888

14

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH

50. What is the primary purpose of the author?
A) To explain why slavery was widely practised in Latin
America during the 19th century
B) To clarify when slavery was completely ended in Latin
America
C) To discuss some consequences of the abolishment of
slavery in Latin America
D) To emphasise the considerable efforts of slaves to
gain independence in Latin America
E) To justify that investment from Europe and North
America helped to end slavery in Latin America

15

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH
51-54: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

52. Which of the following is true according to the
passage?
A) Yeasts and moulds turn acid into sugar before people
consume fruits.

Making food is one thing; keeping it is another. In their
natural state, all the organic materials we eat are
perishable. After a certain period of time, they go bad –
smell bad, taste bad, look bad. Even if they do not
become downright unappetising, foods lose nutritional
value as vitamins degrade due to heat, strong light, air,
or water. In preserving foods, the first order of business
is to prevent yeasts, moulds, bacteria, and insects from
devouring them before we do. Yeasts and moulds thrive
on acidic fruits and convert their sugars to an acidic fizz.
Bacteria prefer meat, dairy products, and low-acid
vegetables; if allowed to proliferate, they create acid and
other waste products that destroy food. Certain bacteria
can overrun a person's gastrointestinal tract or release
dangerous toxins, causing the misery of acute food
poisoning. People have tried to prevent food spoilage
since they first started cooking meat over a fire –
smoking, salting, drying, and pickling have been around
for millennia. The science of food preservation,
however, advanced considerably in the 19th century
with the advent of such processes as pasteurisation.

B) Yeasts and moulds may colonise bacteria and insects
in warm and low-acid conditions.
C) Efforts to avoid food spoilage have been around since
people began cooking meat over a fire.
D) Food preservation started in the 19th century with the
advent of pasteurisation.
E) All types of bacteria release toxins, causing acute food
poisoning.

53. Which of the following is true according to the
passage?
A) Cooking meat over a fire could cause bacteria to
proliferate easily on it.
B) The 19th century is the period in which the science of
food preservation bloomed.

51. According to the passage, even if foods do not go
bad quickly, ----.

C) Drying and salting prevent food spoilage as they
reduce acidity of the food.

A) they may contribute less to our health after a period of
exposure to certain factors
B) they could perish if they are exposed to direct sunlight

D) Pasteurisation has reduced the practice of other food
preservation techniques.

C) insects and bacteria detect them easily due to their
bad smell

E) Problems in the gastrointestinal tract are usually the
result of food poisoning.

D) they may cause changes in a person's gastrointestinal
tract
E) people do not wish to eat foods exposed to heat or
water for a long time

16

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH

54. What can be said about foods according to the
passage?
A) Meat, dairy products and low-acid vegetables are the
only foods bacteria proliferate.
B) If it is still appetising, consumption of food is harmless
even if it is affected by any bacteria.
C) Food spoilage is inevitable unless foods are preserved
through specific processes.
D) People tend to keep their spoiled foods even if they
look unappetising.
E) Pasteurisation is accepted as the most efficient way to
prevent foods from going bad.

17

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH
55-58: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

56. It can be inferred from the passage that the relevant
questions asked in a standard lie test ----.
A) are expected to induce standard bodily responses
from the respondent

A lie detector is a device intended to detect an
involuntary physiological response that all persons
exhibit when lying but never when telling the truth.
However, the lie detector of popular fancy is
mythological. In actual ‘lie protector’ tests, breathing
movements, blood pressure changes and electrodermal
responses are recorded on a polygraph while the
respondent answers “yes” or “no” to a series of 8 to 12
questions. From the polygraph recordings, one can
determine whether ‘relevant’ questions had a greater
impact on the respondent than did the interpolated
‘control’ questions. In the standard lie test used in
specific issue investigations, the relevant questions ask
whether the respondent committed the act in question;
for example, “On April 12, did you take $2000 from the
office safe?” A typical control question might be, “Have
you ever stolen anything?” If the examinee reacts more
strongly to the relevant than to the control questions, it
is inferred that his/her answers to the relevant questions
are deceptive. Because an innocent accused also may
be disturbed by the relevant questions and react more
strongly to them than to the controls, the lie test is
biased against the truthful respondent. Research has
shown that as many as 50 percent of innocent criminal
suspects may ‘fail’ lie protector tests.

B) are used to disguise the control questions, which yield
typical reactions
C) would not be of much use without the control
questions
D) indicate that the respondent is lying if he or she reacts
normally to them
E) consistently lead to similar bodily changes in innocent
people

57. What is the disadvantage of the test used in specific
issue investigations?
A) Some truthful test takers might be unwilling to answer
the control questions because they do not seem
relevant.
B) Honest people may overreact to the questions, which
makes it hard to differentiate them from the liars.
C) The answers given to the control questions bear no
relation to the answers to the relevant ones.

55. Which of the following is true about lie detectors?
A) The number of the control questions surpasses that of
the relevant questions in actual lie protector tests.

D) A majority of innocent people are falsely accused due
to their unwillingness to react to the relevant
questions.

B) A lie detector device actually works differently from
what is usually imagined.

E) Researchers usually find the test unreliable, which
makes the test impractical for investigative purposes.

C) One can monitor extraordinary differences in a
person’s psychology during a lie protector test.
D) They record bodily responses evoked particularly by
control questions.
58. Which could be the best title for this passage?

E) The respondent’s bodily reactions are examined
before the questions are asked.

A) How to Deceive Lie Detectors
B) Question Types for Lie Protector Tests
C) The Basic Working Principle of Lie Detectors
D) The History and Development of Lie Detectors
E) Investigating Financial Crime through Lie Detectors

18

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH
59-62: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

60. Why is it important to read outside your favourite
genre?
A) To imitate the great writers who have written before
you

We all start out as readers, don’t we? First, it is picture
books read to us by mum or dad. Then we begin to
recognise sounds, letters, and words, and to take the
first steps towards becoming readers ourselves. Many of
us got the reading bug when we were young, and books
read in childhood can stay with us forever. Reading is
often the first piece of advice any aspiring writer is
given. If you want to become a published author, it is a
pretty good idea to take a look at what has been
published so far – and to see what is being published
now. First, read the kind of stuff you yourself want to
write. Whatever that is – romance, crime, sci-fi, thrillers,
memoirs, sagas, fantasy, non-fiction, it is sensible to
see what is already out there. Secondly, take a look at
what is being written outside your own genre. The more
widely you read, the more you will learn. See how others
do it and find out what works for you – and what does
not. Learn how successful authors keep their readers
turning the pages. Finally, do not ignore the everyday
stuff you cannot get away from: newspapers and
magazines, TV advertisements, websites, social media
and so on. Ultimately, as a writer, you need to use
words effectively to make every word count.

B) To learn about different styles and structures available
C) To see which of the genres are making the biggest
profits
D) To decide what genre is the best for your target group
of readers
E) To get inspired by the popular themes of the great
writers

61. Which of the following can replace the underlined
verb ‘count’ in the passage?
A) stimulate

B) imply

C) matter

D) occur
E) necessitate

59. Which of the following is true about the books
people read in childhood according to the passage?
A) People form their reading habits thanks to the pictures
these books contain.

62. What is the main purpose of the author?

B) Children’s books are usually better than picture books
in helping become a published writer.

A) To give information on how to read more effectively
B) To explain briefly what the great authors do and do not
do

C) Such books are written for the purpose of teaching
sounds and letters.
D) We often remember them throughout the course of our
lives.

C) To describe the similarities and differences between
reading and writing
D) To offer some guidelines to people wanting to become
writers

E) It may not be possible to become a good writer without
analysing them carefully.

E) To compare and contrast a variety of literary genres
for the enthusiasts

19

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH

63-67: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the dialogue.

64. Molly:
 So, I really liked the film. Actually, it really went
way beyond my expectations.

63. Mary:
 So, I’ve decided to participate in the Citizen
Science movement.

James:
 Yeah, the special effects were pretty cool but I
didn’t like how long the film was. I mean,
seriously, why would any film need to be nearly
three hours long?

Hilda:
 And what exactly are you expected to do as part
of this movement?

Molly:
 Well, with this kind of film it takes a lot of time to
develop the plot and the characters. Don’t you
think so?

Mary:
 Nothing special, in fact. Science volunteers can
contribute to global science studies by simply
monitoring whales offshore or hawks and stars in
the sky.

James:
 ----

Hilda:
 ----

Molly:
 I get what you’re saying, but I still think most of
them were needed in the film so that it could
convey its message to the audience in a
meaningful way.

Mary:
 Not really! It’s simple to do with basic technology,
like smartphone apps. So, you can easily collect
data and share it with other members of the
movement.

A) Not really. But since this was a sequel it must have
taken longer to develop some of the themes of the
story for people who haven’t seen the first one.

A) That’s interesting. So they invite you to be an amateur
researcher who offers help for free?

B) I agree that it must be a challenge for the writers to
take such a complex plot and develop it into a shorter
film, but I still got really bored.

B) Sounds impressive. Would you need to use special
equipment in order to record these things?

C) Nope, but I think the problem is actually with the
cinema itself rather than the film. In some countries, a
break is given partway through the film. We need that,
too.

C) That’s exciting. But don’t you think you should be able
to earn money for this kind of work?
D) Hmm, I see. Doesn’t this benefit the research team
more than it benefits the volunteers?

D) Well, you have a point there. It does take time. Maybe
the problem was with the story itself. I believe many
critics would just agree with me.

E) Wow. Is accuracy one of the top priorities for these
types of observations?

E) Actually, I don’t. Some of the scenes were
unnecessary because they didn’t stick to the central
theme of the story.

20

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH

65. Maggie:
 Last week you said you didn’t feel so well and
you’d join a gym.

66. Alan:
 We are all told to exercise more, but for those
with physical disabilities, the benefits of aerobic
exercise have always been out of reach. I think
scientists need to find a solution for this.

Lucy:
 That’s true, but I have so much work to do that I
can hardly find the time to even call up for
information on how to best get fit.

Chelsea:
 In fact, I have read about a recent study which
aims to develop a kind of drug that will create the
effect of exercise for those with physical
disabilities.

Maggie:
 ---Lucy:
 It’s definitely better than nothing. Maybe I can try
to discipline myself and start doing some
stretching at my office.

Alan:
 ---Chelsea:
 Thanks to the medication, the genes which prove
resistant to weight gain can be activated without
any physical training.

A) You keep finding excuses, and I think the problem is
your tendency to delay. If you really want to create
some time, I’m sure you can find a way.

A) How can that drug compensate for the lack of physical
activity?

B) Actually, you don’t really need a gym. Most
professionals say even five minutes of light exercise
can be beneficial for your health.

B) How interested would you be in taking the drug
yourself?

C) You’d better get some advice from a doctor rather than
hit the gym. Using prescribed medicines can help you
lose weight in a controlled way.

C) How often is the drug taken to activate fat burning
mechanisms?

D) You shouldn’t worry so much about trivial things.
Going to the gym can make you feel happy, as the key
to a happy life is to be able to find pleasure in small
things.

D) How do disabled people feel after taking this kind of
drug?
E) How much do they agree on the impact of the drug on
people?

E) I think you should reorganise your weekly schedule.
There are various techniques for planning your day so
that you can have some time for yourself.

21

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH

68-71: For these questions, choose the best
rephrased form of the given sentence.

67. Patient:
 I have a sore throat and this is the third in the last
six months. My tonsils will probably need to be
removed.

68. Recent studies have suggested that underground
water does not freeze despite temperatures being as
low as -70ºC, as it is prevented by salt present in the
water.

Doctor:
 It used to be a common practice a few decades
ago, but today we approach tonsil removal with
much more caution.

A) It has been suggested by recent studies that because
the salt in the water prevents freezing, water
underground stays liquid even when the temperature
is as low as -70ºC.

Patient:
 ---Doctor:
 We take little notice of our palatine tonsils, except
when they are sore, but they activate our immune
system, recognising pathogens entering through
the mouth and nose.

B) As recent studies have suggested, underground water
freezes when the temperature reaches -70ºC, despite
the fact that salt in water generally prevents freezing.
C) Recent studies have suggested that water remains
liquid under the ground until the temperature reaches
-70ºC and enough salt is present.

Patient:
 So I should take better care of them instead of
having them removed.

D) According to some recent studies, as underground
water remains liquid even at temperatures as low as
-70ºC, the salt stops the water from freezing at higher
temperatures.

A) I can’t see why patients are driven to such risks. There
must be a good side that may be less obvious to us.

E) Recent studies have maintained that as soon as the
temperature reaches -70ºC, the salt in underground
water prevents its freezing.

B) But when inflamed, they are extremely painful. Why
should I tolerate them if I can easily get rid of them?
C) So vaccination can provide protection against specific
diseases? Is it possible to prevent infection this way?
D) Oh! I would have had medical treatment instead of
having them removed through surgery if I had known
that.
E) Does it really make sense? Surgery is supposed to be
the last option in such cases regarding the immune
system.

22

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH

69. Thinking about 'what-ifs' is commonly thought to be
a futile exercise; however, it helps individuals make
sense of their past experiences and prepare for the
future.

71. Although the household technological products are
interesting to users from all age groups, they are
particularly significant to older people with sensory
or motor limitations, due to the high degree of
operational comfort and safety they offer.

A) Thinking about 'what-ifs' is thought to be helpful in
taking lessons from past experiences and being more
cautious about the future, even though it is actually an
exercise that has no meaning.

A) Household technological products offer a high level of
operational comfort and safety to people of all ages;
nevertheless, it is the elderly who find them the most
useful, especially if they have sensory and motor
limitations.

B) Although it is widely believed to be an unnecessary
exercise, making sense of past experiences lets
individuals think about 'what-ifs', teaching them life
lessons in the long run.

B) Household technological products attract the attention
of consumers of all ages, but they are especially
important to the elderly who have sensory and motor
limitations as these devices provide a great degree of
operational comfort and safety.

C) People should think about their 'what-ifs' because it is
not a pointless exercise; it is something that is useful
and effective for both the past and future.

C) Despite the fact that people from various age groups
are interested in household technology, the biggest
group who needs them is the elderly since they seek a
high degree of operational comfort and safety because
of their sensory and motor limitations.

D) Thinking about 'what-ifs' is not only a popular activity
exercised by many, but also a sensible tool to make
meanings of the past and get ready for future
experiences in advance.
E) Contrary to popular belief, thinking about 'what-ifs' is
not a useless exercise; it is rather something that lets
people make meaningful inferences about the past
and be ready for the future.

D) Household technological devices are significant for
people of all ages, but they are especially important to
those with sensory and motor limitations, such as old
people, because these devices are comfortable and
safe to operate.
E) Though many people find household technological
devices important owing to their high level of
operational comfort and safety, these devices are
particularly aimed at people with sensory and motor
limitations, regardless of their age.

70. The only time that an analysis procedure can help is
when the user is fully aware not only of its strong
points, but its shortcomings as well.
A) The user is to be fully aware of both the strengths and
weaknesses of an analysis procedure to be able to
benefit from it.
B) An analysis procedure should have more strong points
than shortcomings in order for the user to be aware of
its benefits.
C) Both the strengths and weaknesses of an analysis
procedure should be fully evaluated before the user
becomes aware of its benefits.
D) An analysis procedure can help the user only if the
user acknowledges the strong points rather than its
shortcomings.
E) The shortcomings of an analysis procedure can
reduce its benefits only when the user is not fully
aware of its strong points.

23

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH
72-75: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the missing part of the
passage.

73. At the very least, the egocentric bias causes us to
misunderstand others. It undermines empathy and
tolerance. It also traps us in a bubble and we waste
vast amount of psychic energy recovering from
insults that were never targeted at us in the first
place. To live a life that is less reactive, more
directed, it is necessary to put the ego in its place.
---- We can then see situations with clarity and
approach them effectively. We may even see the
wisdom in others’ point of view, and learn from
them.

72. With few exceptions, the Austronesian languages
are closely interrelated. In spite of their very large
number and the enormous expanse of the territories
occupied by them, it is very easy to recognise their
genetic interrelationship. ---- As a result of this, the
total number of Austronesian languages is a
contentious issue. Taking this into account, the
approximate number of Austronesian languages of
given areas, and the number of their speakers in
these areas could be detected only if a wide-scale
scientific study is conducted.

A) We can cognitively prompt ourselves to recognise that
our own point of view is not the only one, or
necessarily the best one.

A) Because of their great similarity to each other, it is
often difficult to establish whether certain varieties are
different languages, or dialects of one language.

B) Social psychologists say our tilt to egocentricity is
deeply ingrained as it helps us maintain a coherent
narrative of the events in our lives.

B) Phonologically, Austronesian languages are, with a
few exceptions, fairly simple.

C) Even so, it is essential for all of us to recognise the
egocentric bias for what it is: an adaptive illusion.

C) Like other language groups, the Austronesian
languages are thought to have originated thousands of
years ago.

D) There are some situations in which such ego-shifts
occur naturally, with little effort ─ sublime experiences
that defy comprehension.

D) The recognition of the genetic interrelationship and
initial classification of Austronesian languages had its
beginnings in the nineteenth century.

E) Some studies also find that memento mori, reminders
of the impermanence of life, also displace the self from
centre stage.

E) There are four types of indigenous languages in the
Australasia and the Pacific area.

24

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH

74. The mind is a problem-solving organ that allows us
to deal with events in imagination before they are
faced in reality. That amazing skill has, over the last
10,000 years, allowed us, a weak, slow, and poorly
defended species, to take over the planet. ---- We are
living longer, even in the poorest countries.
Violence is down, despite how things appear on our
screens. We have made human progress.

75. A tendency to sleep at a set time each day defines
an individual’s ‘chronotype’. Although strongly
influenced by genetics and light exposure,
age-related body changes play a key role. Puberty
heralds a notable shift as bedtimes and wake-up
times get later. ---- By 55 we wake at around the time
we did as young children, approximately two hours
earlier than as adolescents. Thus, a 7 am alarm for a
teenager feels like a 5 am start for a person in their
50s.

A) Some of the real-world difficulties a person faced
centuries ago have been taken care of or at least
diminished.

A) Teenagers need about 9 hours for best academic
performance; however, many of them get far less.

B) Still, choosing values takes a certain amount of
psychological sophistication to rein in the
problem-solving mind.

B) This trend continues until 19.5 years in women and
nearly 21 in men, then gradually reverses.

C) When we engage the capacity to choose and to
embrace the values that inform our actions, we are
humanising ourselves.

C) A Canadian study compared cognitive performance
mid-morning and mid-afternoon in teenagers and
adults.

D) Our mental capacity can serve as an ever-present
compass, letting us know we are straying from our true
purpose.

D) Not surprisingly, teachers in their 50s will generally be
at their best in the morning, unlike their teenage
students.

E) Sometimes we get so caught up in our own thinking
that we risk turning our values into a pros-and-cons
list.

E) More relaxed attitudes to bedtimes, ignorance about
sleep and the near addictive use of social media make
this worse.

25

Go on to the next page.

2020-YDS/1/ENGLISH

76-80: For these questions, choose the irrelevant
sentence in the passage.

78. (I) Some of the most common reasons for early
childhood hearing loss are genetic. (II) Inner ear hair
cells are responsible for detecting sound signals and
sending them to the brain, but gene mutations within
those cells lead to poorly functioning anatomy.
(III) Researchers working with mice have devised a
method for replacing those flawed genes with healthy
versions: they put the healthy genes into a modified
virus and inject it into the inner ear. (IV) The main test of
restored ear function involves exposing the rodents to a
sudden, startling noise to see if they jump. (V) When the
virus infects the ear hair cells, it delivers the healthy
genes.
A) I
B) II
C) III
D) IV
E) V

76. (I) Wagner was a musical innovator who revolutionised
opera by creating vast music-dramas for which he wrote
both the music and the words – previously composers
had used stories written by librettists. (II) He wanted to
create a combination of all the arts – music, poetry,
drama, and painting – which he called a
Gesamtkunstwerk. (III) In addition, each major character,
symbol, or place in his dramas had its individual musical
theme, or leitmotif, that accompanied it throughout the
opera. (IV) The greatest use of this technique came in
his Ring Cycle, an epic story told over four operas. (V) In
his essay On Conducting, he proposed that a creative
conductor should actively interpret music, rather than
just control an orchestra like a traffic cop.
A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V

79. (I) It is well documented in the literature that anxiety
disorders often co-occur with other diagnoses, including
depression and other anxiety disorders. (II) However, it
is important to examine whether this is true for the
elderly as well. (III) Unlike anxiety or depression, the
incidence of cognitive impairment increases with age.
(IV) Research is beginning to shed light on the
co-occurrence of depression and other psychiatric
disorders in older adults (V) There is evidence
suggesting that as with younger adults, depression most
frequently co-occurs with anxiety disorders among
elderly patients.

77. (I) In the late 15th century, when Europeans first
travelled into the Western Hemisphere, Mesoamerica
was dominated by the vast empire of the Aztecs.
(II) Today, many people in both Mesoamerica and along
the Caribbean are of mixed background. (III) But within
decades of the European arrival, Spanish conquerors
had overwhelmed those powerful people and all other
major groups. (IV) Native Aztec, Zapotec, Mixtec, and
others were congregated into European-style villages
and towns and forcibly converted to Roman Catholicism.
(V) However, Europeans also introduced them to new
sources of income, making them no longer dependent
on traditionally practiced agriculture.
A) I
B) II
C) III
D) IV
E) V

A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V

80. (I) In 2002, the Department of Experimental Psychology
at Oxford University took a group of 50 insomniacs and
got them to try different ways to fall asleep. (II) Those
using the traditional sheep-counting method took slightly
longer than the average. (III) Some sleep research
seems to suggest that punctuating long working hours
with brief ‘power naps’ of just a few minutes may be
good for health. (IV) What worked best was imagining a
tranquil scene such as a beach or a waterfall: this
relaxes people and engages their imagination. (V) On
the other hand, counting sheep is too boring or irritating
to take your mind off whatever is keeping you awake.
A) I

26

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V