1-6: For these questions, choose the best word or
expression to fill the space.

4. Since the mid-20th century, plastic pollution has
increased ----, and resulting pollution has become a
global environmental issue.

1. The most powerful ---- to parachuting is fear, but
one should also take its high cost into account, as a
total outfit for parachuting can be extremely
expensive.
A) resemblance

B) adjustment

C) deterrent

D) submission

A) exponentially

B) conveniently

C) alternatively

D) precisely
E) fruitfully

E) adherence

5. The most basic path to computer literacy is to
---- competence in using computers to perform
personal or vocational tasks.
2. Peanut may very well be the most common food
allergy in some populations, but the ---- of a
particular food allergy varies according to age and
group.
A) utilisation

B) withdrawal

C) precaution

D) termination

A) exclude

B) relieve

C) deteriorate

D) restrict
E) attain

E) prevalence
6. Making videos should be a lot of fun, but it can also
be a bit of a minefield, as lots of people ---problems and lose momentum before they even get
started.
3. Heating and cooling of the Earth are not ----, as it
takes time for land, water, and air to either absorb
heat and warm up or release stored heat and cool
down.
A) hospitable

B) convertible

C) instantaneous

D) detrimental

A) hand over

B) look for

C) turn down

D) give up
E) run into

E) preliminary

1

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH

7-16: For these questions, choose the best
word(s) or expression(s) to fill the space(s).

9. The recent discovery of a toe made of wood and
leather ---- to the mummified body of an Egyptian
noblewoman in Cairo, approximately 3,000 years
old, ---- that artificial limbs are nothing new.

7. A seminal study ---- that people who ---- less than
seven hours a night are at increased risk of
mortality.

A) attached / proves
B) being attached / had proven

A) revealed / will sleep

C) attach / has proven

B) has revealed / sleep

D) attaching / proved

C) reveals / will be sleeping

E) to be attached / used to prove

D) will reveal / have slept
E) had revealed / had been sleeping

10. Anorexia nervosa is a severe eating disorder,
usually involving excessive weight loss ---self-starvation, most often found ---- teenage girls.

8. Ideally, the end of the Cold War between the United
States and the Soviet Union ---- a substantial
lessening of security concerns in the world;
however, in practice, the focus ---- to terrorism and
subnational groups.

A) at / with

B) from / of

C) for / between

D) by / on
E) through / among

A) might have signified / will have moved
B) would have signified / used to move
C) must have signified / had moved
D) could have signified / had been moving

11. With concerns ---- the rate of energy demand, the
role of renewable energy, which is generated ---sources that are naturally replenished, such as wind
and sunlight, is becoming increasingly significant.

E) should have signified / moved

A) at / upon

B) in / for

C) to / through

D) about / from
E) over / into

2

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH

12. ---- certain types of fungi have been used throughout
history for a variety of beneficial purposes, others
have been found to contain dangerous toxins that
are poisonous to humans.

15. The conventional view of dinosaur origins holds that
they were endowed with ---- superior speed, agility,
metabolism and intelligence ---- as soon as they
debuted they quickly spread across the globe.

A) Once

B) Although

A) either / or

B) both / and

C) Since

D) Provided that

C) the more / the more

D) whether / or

E) Only when

E) such / that

13. ---- such an intimate connection existed between
agricultural intensification and the appearance of
cities, it is not surprising that the earliest evidence
for cities comes from regions with ancient
agricultural traditions.
A) Because

B) As if

C) Before

D) Although

16. Books continue to be a major medium for
communicating scholarly works in the field of
history, ---- many other social sciences, where
journal articles are far more important.
A) with the help of

B) in contrast to

C) due to

D) such as
E) on the basis of

E) While

14. ---- children can be easy targets for exploitation and
victimization, supervision is a necessary component
of any Internet safety.
A) Even if

B) Although

C) Since

D) Before
E) Unless

3

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH
17-21: For these questions, choose the best
word or expression to fill the spaces in the
passage.

19.

According to classical Western historiography,
modernity begins in 1789 with the advent of the French
Revolution. This is, perhaps, not entirely (17)---- the
many social changes inspired by that upheaval. It is also
because of the political change, marking the break
between the former regime and modernity (18)---- the
French Revolution represents the beginning of modern
political culture. Between 1791 and 1795, France
(19)---- three constitutions. These were a liberal
constitutional monarchy, a democratic republic based on
universal manhood suffrage and a liberal republic. All
three provided inspiration for constitutional monarchists,
democrats and liberals far (20)---- the borders of France.
Indeed, the legacy of the 1791 constitution eventually
forced most ruling 19th-century monarchs (21)---- a
constitution limiting their powers. And of the 29
constitutions adopted in Europe during 1791 – 1802
alone, 26 were the result of direct French influence.

A) withdrew

B) neglected

C) jeopardised

D) dispelled
E) adopted

20.
A) beyond

B) under

C) between

D) by
E) into

17.

21.
A) unlike

B) despite

C) due to

D) instead of

A) having accepted
B) to have accepted
C) accepting

E) except for

D) to accept
E) to be accepting

18.
A) as if

B) because

C) although

D) once
E) unless

4

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH
22-26: For these questions, choose the best
word or expression to fill the spaces in the
passage.

24.

Martin Scorsese’s Goodfellas (1990) is a long, violent
and enthralling interweaving of biography, social
observation and black comedy. It is a story based on the
real life of Henry Hill, who grew to manhood in the Mafia
and eventually (22)---- his former associates, sending
them to prison for the rest of their lives. The film is
considered to be successful by critics and audiences
(23)---- its superb cast, which includes some of the best
of New York’s character actors: Paul Sorvino, Lorraine
Bracco as Hill’s wife, Robert De Niro in his sixth
collaboration with director Scorsese, and Joe Pesci,
who gives a remarkably realistic performance as a
menacing gangster (24)---- the rise. As Henry Hill, the
actor Ray Liotta gives a complex portrayal of an
Irish-Italian kid who succeeds in his youthful ambition
(25)---- popularity as a wealthy gangster, only to have his
position slowly eroded until it almost destroys him.
Martin Scorsese sustains the fast tempo of the tale to an
exciting, artful climax, (26)---- some questioned whether
Goodfellas glamorised or made criminals appear too
sympathetic.

A) for

B) at

C) in

D) to
E) on

25.
A) to gain
B) gaining
C) to have gained
D) having gained
E) to be gaining

22.
A) executed

B) recalled

C) converted

D) anticipated

26.

E) betrayed

A) given that

B) only when

C) even though

D) as long as
E) as if

23.
A) at the expense of

B) as opposed to

C) on account of

D) except for

E) in comparison to

5

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH

27-36: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the given sentence.

29. ----, advertisers will quickly be discouraged from
attempting to use such approaches because of
public disapproval.
A) Even if a successful return on investment is
forthcoming from subliminal advertisements

27. Unless they regard the material they are taught as
worth learning, ----.
A) classrooms are rather intricate microcosms where
students spend a great deal of their life and find out
who they are

B) Because companies desire high profits from their
investments, including advertising
C) As a result of a rapid growth in online advertising in
many sectors

B) time pressure under which most teachers work
prevents them from meeting their students’ needs

D) Whereas there is no credible evidence that subliminal
advertising will yield benefits

C) students will not be motivated to take part in
classroom activities and interact with each other

E) Although proponents provide no rationale to guide
the use of subliminal adverts

D) subjects related to students’ everyday experiences
stimulate their interest and induce them to study with
vigour
E) making learning process more enjoyable and
interesting encourages further student involvement

30. In addition to the obvious detrimental effects of
sport injury on physical functioning, ----.
A) athletes are mainly able to focus primary attention on
their rehabilitation programs
28. While chronic stress can bring on significant mental
health issues along with other problems, ----.

B) any injury that occurs during a sports event is called a
sport injury

A) stress can be prevented from becoming a problem in
the first place by following a healthy diet

C) most negative emotions tend to dissipate over the first
month following the injuries

B) employees should be trained in stress management
before they experience stress-related problems in the
workplace

D) sport injury can have a harmful effect on various
aspects of psychological functioning

C) work-related stress often leads to depression or
anxiety, causing a high rate of loss in employee
productivity

E) injury appears to spur athletes’ use of coping
strategies and seeking support from others

D) short-term stress, such as working to meet an
imminent deadline, can be beneficial
E) stress may trigger headaches, digestive disorders and
cardiovascular disease

6

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH

31. Even though Egyptian medicine went into decline
about 1200 BCE, ----.

33. The many varieties of lime are nearly identical in
shape and appearance, ----.

A) ancient Egyptians began to develop the world’s first
sophisticated medical practice sometime before 2000
BCE

A) while their primary use is to flavour foods like salads
and cakes
B) although they are widely considered to have originated
in Asia

B) its reputation as the best in the ancient world
continued for many centuries to follow

C) given that they are high in vitamin C and contain
antioxidants that promote health

C) there is evidence suggesting that most treatments for
disease were based on trial-and-error experimentation

D) but their degree of acidity ranges from nearly neutral
to extremely sour

D) it is assumed that Egyptian priests gained their
understanding of the human body by preparing
mummies

E) so they can also be utilised to produce perfumes and
suntan products

E) religion in ancient Egypt played an integral role in the
treatment of all kinds of diseases

34. Consumers are less likely to adopt innovations that
demand radical behaviour changes ----.

32. Visiting buildings gives you the best chance to
experience architecture in relation to the world of
light, sound, setting, and people, ----.

A) as certain habits are more likely to be rapidly adopted
B) unless they are convinced that the effort will be
worthwhile

A) though visits to buildings are enjoyable and provide a
chance to see how architecture changes the real world

C) although innovators represent about 2.5% of the
population

B) but to understand the underlying architecture of
buildings you need to study them through drawing

D) whereas marketers are interested in identifying
producers’ needs

C) as many books on architecture and the history of
architecture are rich in various kinds of visuals

E) since they tend to have more favourable attitudes
toward taking risks

D) and there is no readily-available prescription on how to
become a good architect
E) even so, architecture is about changing the world,
making it better, more comfortable, and more beautiful

7

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH
37-42: For these questions, choose the most
accurate Turkish translation of the sentences in
English, and the most accurate English translation
of the sentences in Turkish.

35. Irish people fear that international populations of
Ireland’s cities threaten the native culture, ----.
A) as cultural education is mandatory for all permanent
residents of Ireland

37. One of the difficulties of studying African literature
is that for much of the history of Africa, the societies
were non-literate and thus relied on oral traditions
to pass their stories to the coming generations.

B) yet Irish artists are encouraged to focus on traditional
rather than modern art projects
C) and thus foreigners seeking good job opportunities
stay in big cities like Dublin and Belfast

A) Afrika edebiyatını incelemenin zorluklarından biri,
Afrika tarihinin büyük bir bölümünde toplumların
okuryazar olmamalarından dolayı hikâyelerini gelecek
nesillere sözlü gelenek yoluyla aktarmayı tercih
etmeleridir.

D) but the survival of traditional music, dance, and
storytelling proves otherwise
E) so Ireland’s popularity as a tourist destination is
ensured by its profound cultural heritage

B) Afrika tarihinin büyük bir bölümünde toplumların
okuryazar olmamaları sebebiyle hikâyelerini gelecek
nesillere aktarmak için sözlü geleneklere bağlı
kalması, Afrika edebiyatını incelemenin zorluklarından
birini oluşturmaktadır.
C) Afrika edebiyatını incelerken karşılaşılan zorluklardan
biri, Afrika tarihinin büyük bir bölümüne bakıldığında
toplumların okuryazar olmamaları ve hikâyelerini
gelecek nesillere sözlü geleneklere bağlı kalarak
aktarmalarıdır.

36. Esperanto, an artificial language invented in 1887
for international use, is considered by many to be
one of the easiest languages to master ----.

D) Afrika edebiyatını incelemenin zorluklarından biri,
Afrika tarihinin büyük bir bölümünde toplumların
okuryazar olmamaları ve dolayısıyla hikâyelerini
gelecek nesillere aktarmak için sözlü geleneklere bağlı
kalmalarıdır.

A) but UNESCO has affirmed the value of establishing
it as a universal second language
B) although the Polish linguist Ludwik L. Zamenhof hoped
to bring all of the peoples of the Earth together by
inventing such a language

E) Afrika tarihinin büyük bir bölümünde toplumlar
okuryazar olmadıklarından hikâyelerini gelecek
nesillere aktarmak için sözlü geleneklere bağlıydılar ve
bu durum Afrika edebiyatını incelemenin
zorluklarından birini oluşturmaktadır.

C) in order that the number of speakers can reach
several million in varying levels of proficiency
D) because it is known for its simplicity, beauty and
flexibility as a medium for translation
E) even if Esperantists believe in the positive outcomes in
learning and teaching this language

8

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH

38. Being overweight after turning 60 may increase the
risk of Alzheimer’s disease, but by losing weight,
people may be able to hinder ageing of their brains
and reduce the likelihood of memory problems later
on.

39. As well as being low in calories, vegetables are a
rich source of vitamins and minerals and can help
reduce the risk of many health problems.
A) Zengin bir vitamin ve mineral kaynağı olan sebzeler
aynı zamanda düşük kalorili olduğu için birçok sağlık
sorunu riskinin azaltılmasına yardımcı olabilir.

A) Aşırı kilolu olmak, 60 yaşına gelindiğinde Alzheimer
hastalığı riskini artırabilmektedir fakat kilo veren
insanlar beyinlerinin yaşlanmasını engelleyerek
sonrasında yaşanacak olan hafıza problemleri
olasılığını azaltabilirler.

B) Sebzeler, düşük kalorili olmakla birlikte zengin
bir vitamin ve mineral kaynağı olduğu için birçok sağlık
sorunu riskinin azaltılmasına yardımcı olur.
C) Düşük kalorili olmalarının yanı sıra sebzeler, zengin bir
vitamin ve mineral kaynağıdır ve pek çok sağlık
sorunu riskinin azaltılmasına yardımcı olabilir.

B) 60 yaşından sonra aşırı kilolu olmak, Alzheimer
hastalığı riskini artırabilir ancak kilo vererek
beyinlerinin yaşlanmasının önüne geçebilen insanlar
sonrasında yaşanacak olan hafıza problemleri
olasılığını azaltabilirler.

D) Pek çok sağlık sorunu riskinin azaltılmasına yardımcı
olan sebzeler, zengin bir vitamin ve mineral kaynağı
olmakla birlikte düşük kalorilidir.

C) 60 yaşına geldikten sonra aşırı kilolu olanlar,
Alzheimer hastalığı riskini artırabilmektedir fakat
insanlar kilo vererek beynin yaşlanmasının önüne
geçtiğinde sonrasında yaşanacak olan hafıza
problemleri olasılığını azaltabilirler.

E) Sebzeler sadece düşük kalorili olmakla kalmayıp aynı
zamanda zengin bir vitamin ve mineral kaynağıdır ve
birçok sağlık sorunu riskinin azaltılmasına yardımcı
olmaktadır.

D) 60 yaşına geldikten sonra aşırı kilolu olmak, Alzheimer
hastalığı riskini artırabilir ancak insanlar kilo vererek
beyinlerinin yaşlanmasının önüne geçebilir ve
sonrasında hafıza problemleri yaşama olasılığını
azaltabilirler.
E) 60 yaş sonrası kilolu olmak, Alzheimer hastalığı riskini
artırsa da insanlar beyinlerinin yaşlanmasını
engellemek ve sonrasında hafıza problemleri yaşama
olasılığını azaltmak için kilo verebilirler.

9

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH

40. Birinci Dünya Savaşı’ndan sonra Avrupa otomobil
endüstrisi yavaş yavaş toparlanmaya başladı ancak
nispeten düşük gelirler ve yüksek işletme maliyetleri
gerçek anlamda bir seri otomobil üretiminin ortaya
çıkmasını engelledi.

41. Önemli gelişmelere rağmen beynin tam olarak nasıl
hesap yaptığı hâlâ çözülmemiş bir problemdir,
çünkü nöronların bilgiyi nasıl kodladığıyla ilgili pek
çok soru henüz cevaplanmamıştır.
A) The reason why there are still many unanswered
questions about how neurons code information in spite
of significant progress is that the problem of exactly
how the brain computes has not been solved yet.

A) It was comparatively low incomes and high operating
costs that hindered the emergence of a real mass
production of automobiles although the European
automobile industry started to make gradual progress
after World War I.

B) In spite of considerable progress, the problem of
exactly how the brain can compute remains to be
unsolved, as there are many unanswered questions
about the way neurons code information.

B) Following World War I, the European automobile
industry started to improve gradually; however, the
factors that hindered the emergence of a real mass
production of automobiles were relatively low incomes
and high operating costs.

C) Despite considerable progress, exactly how the brain
computes remains an unsolved problem because
many questions about how neurons code information
have not been answered yet.

C) Whereas the European automobile industry began to
recover slowly following World War I, the emergence
of a real mass production of automobiles was delayed
because of relatively low incomes and high operating
costs.

D) There has been considerable progress, but many
questions about exactly how neurons code information
remain unanswered, so the problem of how the brain
can compute has not been solved yet.

D) The European automobile industry started to recover
slowly after World War I, but relatively low incomes
and high operating costs prevented the emergence of
a real mass production of automobiles.

E) While there has been significant progress, we still
cannot solve the problem of exactly how the brain
computes, as many questions about how neurons
code information have not been answered yet.

E) Having started to improve gradually after World War I,
the European automobile industry prevented the
emergence of a real mass production of automobiles
due to comparatively low incomes and high operating
costs.

10

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH

42. İki farklı bakteri türü, insan vücudunun belirli
bölgelerinde karşılaştıklarında antibiyotiklere karşı
gösterdikleri alışılagelmiş tepkilerini bırakarak
beklenmedik bir şekilde davranabilirler.
A) Two different types of bacteria are likely to act
unpredictably when they meet in certain parts of the
human body and abandon their usual responses to
antibiotics.
B) When two different types of bacteria meet in certain
parts of the human body, they can act unexpectedly,
abandoning their typical responses to antibiotics.
C) When two different types of bacteria meet in certain
parts of the human body, abandoning their typical
responses to antibiotics can make them act
unexpectedly.
D) The human body has certain parts where two different
types of bacteria may act unpredictably when they
meet and abandon their typical responses to
antibiotics.
E) Meeting in certain parts of the human body, two
different types of bacteria can act unexpectedly if they
have abandoned their normal responses to antibiotics.

11

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH
43-46: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

44. According to the passage, human exceptionalism is
based on ----.
A) evidence that apes have the ability to learn a human
language

The question of animal language and thought has been
debated since ancient times. Some have held the
view that humans are exceptional in these respects,
while others believe that humans and animals are
similar with respect to language and thought. The issue
is important because our self-image as a species is at
stake. Arguments for human exceptionalism such as
Cartesian, Wittgensteinian and behaviourist state that
language and thought are closely associated, and
animals do not have language. The ape language
experiments of the 1960s and 1970s were especially
important against this background: if apes could learn
language then even the advocates of human
exceptionalism would have to admit that they have
thoughts. It is now generally believed that whatever
linguistic abilities apes have shown have been quite
rudimentary. Yet many sceptics are willing to grant that
in some cases apes did develop linguistic skills to some
extent, and clearly evidenced thought. Studies of other
animals in captivity and various animals in the wild have
provided evidence of highly sophisticated
communicative behaviour. Cognitive ethology and
comparative psychology have emerged as the fields that
study animal thought. While there are conceptual
difficulties in grounding these fields, it appears plausible
that many animals have thoughts and these can be
scientifically investigated.

B) the fact that apes are able to think just like humans do
C) the assumption that animal behaviour is closely
connected to their thoughts
D) an idea that there is a strong link between language
and thought
E) a behaviourist approach to language learning

45. It can be inferred from the passage that ----.
A) captive and wild animals differ greatly in how they
communicate
B) wild animals are better at developing ways of
communication than captive animals
C) there is a significant lack of study of animal thought
and communication
D) studies of animals in captivity fail to provide any
evidence of their ability to think
E) whether captive or wild, many animals may exhibit
sophisticated communicational behaviour

43. According to the passage, the issue of animal
language is significant because ----.
A) it has just started to emerge in various debates
B) it can determine the self-image of human beings as a
species

46. Which of the following can be said about the author
of the passage?

C) it has been proven that animals can understand
human language

A) He seems to be of the opinion that there are many
animals with the ability to think.

D) human beings’ self-image is strengthened when
animals understand their language

B) He supports the philosophical views that regard
humans as the highest of species.

E) there is strong evidence against animals’ ability to
have thoughts

C) He clearly states that investigating animal intelligence
in terms of thinking is a waste of time.
D) He does not accept the idea that humans and animals
can be investigated on one scale.
E) He endorses the idea that human beings’ self-image
as a species has been destroyed.

12

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH
47-50: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

48. According to the passage, the success of small
businesses is often associated with ----.
A) diversification of risk

Risk is inherent in all business activity. Start-ups, for
example, face the risk of too few customers, and
therefore insufficient revenue to cover costs. There is
also the risk that a competitor will copy the company’s
idea, and perhaps offer a better alternative. When a
company has borrowed money from a bank, there is a
risk that interest rates will rise, and repayments will
become too burdensome to afford. Start-ups that rely on
overseas trade are also exposed to exchange-rate risk.
Moreover, new businesses in particular may be exposed
to the risk of operating in only one market. Whereas
large companies often diversify their operations to
spread risk, the success of small companies is often
linked to the success of one idea (the original genesis
for the start-up) or one geographic region, such as the
local area. A decline in that market or area can lead to
failure. It is essential that new businesses are mindful of
market changes, and position themselves to adapt to
those changes. At its heart, risk is a strategic issue.
Business owners must carefully weigh the operational
risk of a start-up, or the risks of a new product or
project, against potential profits or losses – in other
words, the strategic consequences of action vs.
inaction. Risk must be quantified and managed; and it
poses a constant strategic challenge. Fortune favours
the brave, but with people’s lives and the success of the
business at stake, caution cannot simply be thrown to
the wind.

B) a specific idea or location
C) operating in several markets
D) their position relative to inherent risks
E) revising their targets

49. What is the author’s attitude towards risk-taking?
A) Cautious

B) Supportive

C) Neutral

D) Changeable
E) Tolerant

50. Which of the following describes the main purpose
of this passage?
A) To warn businesses against the risks that are a natural
part of doing business
B) To discourage start-ups from doing business with
overseas companies

47. Which of the following is not mentioned as a risk in
business activity?
A) Not having enough customers to meet the costs of
operating your business

C) To show that risks in business far outweigh any
possible advantages

B) A competitor offering a better version of your product

D) To explain why risk-taking in business is essential in
certain business models

C) Not being able to get a bank loan to cover your
start-up costs

E) To describe how risk-taking contributes to success in
business

D) Exchange-rate risk in overseas trade
E) Challenge of loan repayment if interest rates increase

13

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH
51-54: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

52. It is stated in the passage that the hand bones
of Neanderthals ----.
A) were chunkier than those of early modern humans
allowing only power grips

Neanderthals could hold objects between finger and
thumb like we would hold a pen because their hands
were more nimble, able to move quickly and easily.
Recent findings suggest that Neanderthals were able to
perform skilful tasks like threading sea shells onto string
to make jewellery. These activities were hard to explain
if they were clumsy. Neanderthal hand bones were
much chunkier than ours, implying a lack of fine control.
Previous studies suggested Neanderthals were unable
to perform a ‘precision grip’ with finger and thumb.
Instead, they were thought to use a ‘power
grip’ involving their whole fist like small children holding
crayons. To find out how Neanderthals used their
hands, Katerina Harvati at the University of Tübingen,
Germany studied 3D scans of ‘entheses’: the points on
the bones where muscles were attached. A precision
grip uses a different set of muscles to a power grip, and
those muscles that get used more result in larger
entheses. Harvati’s team previously showed this by
studying modern humans having done different jobs.
They examined the hand entheses of Neanderthals and
early modern humans. The Neanderthals spent most of
their time using precision grips, while the early modern
humans used both precision and power grips. “Our
study reconciles the archaeological with the anatomical
fossil evidence,” says Harvati. “It was previously
proposed Neanderthals relied on force for their manual
activities”, but this perception “was at odds with
mounting archaeological evidence for sophisticated
cultural behaviour of Neanderthals”.

B) were previously considered to make them incapable of
performing delicate tasks
C) helped them to excel in using string to make jewellery
from various materials
D) led to a lack of control while using power grips to
perform different jobs
E) were not well developed enough to study them through
3D scans

53. The underlined word ‘reconciles’ is closest in
meaning to ----.
A) challenges

B) divides

C) matches

D) identifies
E) abandons

54. Which of the following could be the best title for the
passage?

51. It is stated in the passage that contrary to earlier
research, Neanderthals ----.

A) Effects of the Power Grip on Cultural Behaviours
of Neanderthals

A) were capable of using their finger and thumb to grasp
things

B) Historical Records of Manual Activities of
Neanderthals

B) expended considerable effort to be able to perform a
precision grip

C) A Comparison between Neanderthal and Modern
Human Hand Anatomies

C) learnt to control their hand muscles through activities
like making jewellery with sea shells

D) Archaeological Findings on Early Modern
Humans’ Manual Skills

D) were clumsy, and thus incompetent in accomplishing
complicated tasks

E) Neanderthal Performance: Power Grip or Precision
Grip

E) used power grips even for tasks that required delicacy

14

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH
55-58: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

56. According to the passage, the safety of each flight is
ensured by ----.
A) supplying powerful engines

US statistics taken from between 2000 and 2009 show
that car drivers or passengers suffer 7.3 deaths per
billion miles. In contrast, air travel comes in at just 0.07
deaths per billion passenger miles. Of course, statistics
cannot cure someone’s fear of flying, but they do prove
that it is one of the safest ways to get from A to B. This
safety is thanks to the testing that every single part of
the aircraft has to go through before it is allowed to
undertake its first flight. While passengers get to enjoy
the comfort of air conditioning, the engines have to be
able to cope with temperatures as low as -55 ºC during
cruise conditions. Temperature tests are important to
the airlines because they want to make sure that their
planes can operate in as many environments as
possible. Each time they have to ground an aircraft
because of bad weather, they lose money. Another thing
to be considered by the airlines is the migrating birds.
They can travel at altitudes of over 8,000m and threaten
the cruise phase of the flight, although the greatest risk
is during take-off, when the craft is at its heaviest and
the engines are close to maximum power.

B) having skilled aircraft crew
C) the tests before the flights
D) less traffic in the air
E) having fewer passengers

57. According to the passage, temperature is important
in air travel because ----.
A) bad weather conditions can result in loss of money for
the airlines
B) temperatures as low as -55 ºC are the main cause of
plane crashes
C) the air conditioning in aircrafts is not effective at low
temperatures
D) it can affect the speed of the planes leading to delays
in flights

55. It is pointed out in the passage that according to the
statistics ----.
A) air travel is more popular than ever, especially in the
USA

E) passengers generally prefer to fly in good weather
conditions

B) the number of people afraid of air travel is increasing
C) transportation is safer by plane than by car
D) the number of deaths in air travel is increasing
58. One can understand from the passage that birds ----.

E) people die of the fear of flights, not of air crashes

A) are responsible for the majority of air travel deaths
B) are a bigger danger to planes than low temperatures
C) threaten the safety of the flight mostly during the initial
stages of the flight
D) can prevent the engines from reaching their maximum
power
E) are most dangerous at altitudes higher than 8,000m

15

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH
59-62: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

60. It is pointed out in the passage that weak memories
----.
A) can be strengthened but they cannot be as permanent
as initially strong ones

What makes for a long-lasting memory? Research has
shown that emotional or important events become
deeply rooted, whereas neutral ones create weak
impressions that easily fade. But what about an
experience that initially seemed forgettable but was later
shown to be important? Animal research suggested that
these types of older memories could be strengthened,
but until now scientists had not been able to replicate
these findings in humans. New evidence suggests that
our initially weak memories are maintained by the brain
for a set period of time, during which they can be
enhanced. In a recent study, psychologists at New York
University showed 119 participants a set of images of
tools and animals. A few minutes later the subjects saw
a new set of images, with an electric shock paired with
either tools or animals to increase the salience of
one category. The participants' memories for both sets
of images were then tested either six hours later, or the
next day. Participants remembered images from the first
series better if they belonged to the same category that
was later paired with a shock. The findings suggest that
even if an event does not seem meaningful when it
occurs, a later cue signalling that the experience was
important can enhance the old memory.

B) remain in the brain only if they are replicated on a daily
basis
C) can be better remembered if they are connected to
initially strong ones
D) are bound to disappear eventually, even if they are
repeated
E) are kept in the brain for some time before they are
forgotten

61. Which of the following is true about the study done
by New York University psychologists?
A) Accompanying an image in the second set with an
electric shock facilitated recollection of the ones in the
same category in the first set.
B) The participants remembered as many images from
the second series as from the first one when asked on
the same day or the next day.
C) The memory experiment tested humans' neural
reactions to a set of images of animals and tools.

59. According to the passage, in order for memories to
be deeply rooted, they should be ----.
A) paired with a physical stimulus

D) The study provided evidence for how memories can be
manipulated to alter reality.

B) accompanied by stimulating feelings

E) The researchers accompanied the images of tools with
an electric shock to make the tool category distinct.

C) linked to the ones that are initially strong
D) broadly categorised in the brain before they are lost
E) replicated immediately after they are created

62. What does the passage mainly focus on?
A) How new experiences boost initially weak memories
B) How humans react psychologically to different images
C) When a memory is susceptible to weakening
D) What types of feedback can strengthen memories
E) Whether positive outcomes improve long-term
memory

16

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH

63-67: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the dialogue.

64. Jeff:
 The scale of natural catastrophes in the
world reveals that something must be done as
soon as possible. Just consider the fire in
Australia in 2019.

63. Daniel:
 In my Humanities course this week, we’re learning
about common American hobbies. One such
hobby is coin collecting.

Amy:
 ----

Beth:
 That sounds strange and uncommon. Why would
someone have a hobby such as coin collecting?

Jeff:
 Neither. Actually, a more viable solution would be
better.

Daniel:
 ----

Amy:
 Well, I completely agree that urgent precautions
are needed.

Beth:
 Well, it’s true that coins represent changes in
trade as well as in international relations.
However, it still seems like a strange hobby to
me.

A) Can you please be more specific or at least give some
clear examples as to how?
B) What are the two major actions you consider should
be taken on this matter at hand?

A) I’m not sure why someone would have a hobby like
this. Perhaps people with large collections feel more
powerful than those without.

C) Governments have neither action nor contingency
plans for such a gravely important issue, don’t you
think?

B) Some would argue that coin collecting is related to
history and economics. Therefore, this hobby covers a
wide range of interests.

D) Do you mean harsh penalties or increasing ecological
taxes?

C) My father grew up in America and he collected coins
because he wanted to learn about metals.

E) I believe that more efforts should be made to increase
public awareness of natural catastrophes. Would you
agree?

D) The reasons behind our hobbies are sometimes
unexplainable. I do know that people appreciate
money, so that could be why.
E) Our professor asked us that same question. I’m going
to think about possible reasons this week.

17

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH

65. Hannah:
 The weather has finally warmed up! Time to bring
out the spring wardrobe!

66. Elizabeth:
 Did you know that the rise of drug-resistant
bacteria due to overprescription of antibiotics
kills nearly one million people a year around the
world?

Michael:
 You’re right, but for many of us that means the
onset of allergies with sniffles and watery eyes.

Philip:
 ----

Hannah:
 ----

Elizabeth:
 To address this, the UK government offered local
health bodies an extra £5 in funding per patient if
they cut prescribing antibiotics.

Michael:
 Actually a healthy diet is said to be the key. What
we eat has the potential to prevent allergic
reactions, like sneezing, from happening in the
first place.

Philip:
 Did it really work?

Hannah:
 That’s great! Then everybody can find a way to
enjoy outdoors in spring.

Elizabeth:
 Well, one study has found that general
practitioners began writing 3% fewer antibiotic
prescriptions for respiratory infections.

A) What other symptoms do people have when their
spring allergy starts?

A) Some family doctors in Australia and the UK use
tests before they prescribe antibiotics.

B) Which allergens should people watch out for during
spring time?

B) Yeah that’s right, and many doctors unnecessarily
prescribe the drugs for viral infections as well.

C) Why don’t people prefer to stay indoors to deal with
spring allergies?

C) Fortunately, doctors have been successfully nudged to
cut antibiotic use in recent years.

D) How can people avoid allergies especially throughout
spring?

D) To be honest, governments should try raising
patients´ awareness rather than interfering with the
doctor’s business.

E) How long are allergic people allowed to stay out when
it is spring?

E) I heard that an initiative to curb the overuse of
antibiotics was introduced, which dramatically lowered
the rates.

18

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH

68-71: For these questions, choose the best
rephrased form of the given sentence.

67. Student:
 I think for my final presentation I'm going to focus
on culture and the characteristics of cultured
people.

68. Although it is incorrect to characterise adolescence
as a time of inevitable family conflict, early
adolescence is a period of significant change in
family relationships.

Teacher:
 ---Student:
 Well I like the topic because how people interpret
it may vary greatly. To some, being cultured
means being cultured in arts while for others it
only refers to a good education.

A) Early adolescence is a period of serious change in
family relationships, so it may be wrongly considered
as a time when frequent disagreements arise in the
family.
B) Early adolescence refers to a period of substantial
change in family relationships; however, it would be
wrong to characterise adolescence as a time when
unavoidable family disputes occur.

Teacher:
 I see your point now. Then, you will also need to
address how complementary these two views are
to each other.

C) As adolescence is a time when inescapable family
arguments break out, early adolescence is mistakenly
believed to result in critical change in family
relationships.

A) Wouldn’t it be better if you also mention the
mainstream culture in different societies to illustrate
the common features of cultured people?
B) Why do you consider it as an issue worth discussing in
detail? Isn’t it clear what we expect to find in
these people?

D) Whereas early adolescence is regarded as a period
during which family relationships undergo remarkable
change, adolescence is incorrectly considered as a
time when family disputes become more intense.

C) Are you also interested in the definition of cultural
events since it may provide clues about who to
include as cultured or not?

E) Even though early adolescence is incorrectly
characterised as a period of dramatic change in family
relationships, adolescence is generally seen as a time
when unavoidable family arguments occur frequently.

D) Do you find cultured people who attend talks,
exhibitions and music concerts more intriguing than
ordinary ones?
E) What about also comparing the description of
cultured people with those of intellectuals, artists, and
literary figures?

19

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH

69. If the benefits of zoos are negligible, animal
advocates contend, then, keeping wildlife captive
cannot be justified.

71. Neuroscientists know a lot about how individual
neurons operate but remarkably little about how
large numbers of them work together to produce
thoughts, feelings and behaviours.

A) According to animal advocates, keeping wildlife
captive is not justifiable even though zoos have
several benefits.

A) Neuroscientists’ comprehensive understanding of the
workings of individual neurons may contribute
significantly to what they know about large numbers of
neurons, which are thought to work in cooperation to
produce thoughts, feelings and behaviours.

B) Despite the proven benefits of zoos, animal advocates
believe that keeping wildlife captive is not justifiable.
C) Animal advocates think that it is not possible to justify
keeping wildlife captive unless there are significant
benefits to be gained from the zoos.

B) As they already know how neurons behave
individually, what neuroscientists need to focus more
on is how large neuron groups collaborate to produce
thoughts, feelings and behaviours.

D) Animal advocates suggest that justifying the need to
keep wildlife captive in zoos depends on how much
benefit they offer.

C) Neuroscientists are knowledgeable enough about
how individual neurons function during the production
of thought, feelings, and behaviours, but they know
little about how large numbers of neurons perform
these duties.

E) Regardless of the benefits of zoos, keeping wildlife
captive is unacceptable for animal advocates to justify.

D) Neuroscientists’ knowledge of how large numbers of
neurons cooperate for the production of thoughts,
feelings and behaviours is rather limited despite the
fact that they have vast knowledge of how individual
neurons work.
E) Neuroscientists have already discovered enough
about the functioning of individual neurons, and now
they need to expand their knowledge of how
large neuron groups produce thoughts, feelings and
behaviours.

70. Communicative development in the first year of
all infants occurs in the same way, regardless of the
complexity of the language being acquired.
A) While communicative development in the first year of
all infants takes place in a similar way, the complexity
of the language being acquired may impact this
development.
B) The complexity of an infant’s language determines
whether he or she can learn to communicate more
easily than others in his or her first year.
C) Although some infants have a language that is more
complex than those of others, their communicative
development in their first year could occur more
quickly.
D) No matter how complicated their language is, every
infant goes through the same process of
communicative development in their first year.
E) The complexity of the language being acquired has
nothing to do with the communicative development in
the first year of an infant, though it seems to do so.

20

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH
72-75: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the missing part of the
passage.

73. Infants can recognise the emotions of others, and
use this information when reacting to novel
situations and people. As infants explore their
world, they generally rely on the emotional
expressions of their mothers or caregivers to
determine the safety or appropriateness of a
particular endeavour. ---- Are infants simply
imitating their mother’s emotional responses, or do
they actually experience a change in mood purely
from the expressive visual cues of the mother?
What is known, however, is that as infants explore
their environment, their emotional responses to
what they encounter are based on cues portrayed by
their mother or primary caregiver.

72. Sleep is a period of intense neurological activity,
especially when we have dreams. ---- Many
researchers think that dreams could be an
unintended consequence of these and other
underlying neurological processes. Harvard
psychiatrists propose that as brain circuits become
active during the night, they trigger sensations,
emotions and memories, all of which are essentially
random. But our meaning-making brains still
assemble all of this underlying activity into a story,
often a strange or illogical one.

A) During the second year, infants express emotions of
shame or embarrassment and pride, which are greatly
developed with the help of adults.

A) One of its main functions may be to allow the brain to
consolidate and organise our memories.

B) Parents, however, are one of the primary sources that
socialise children to communicate emotional
experience in culturally specific ways.

B) Deciphering nocturnal symbols may be enjoyable, but
in reality, it is much more complicated than it seems.
C) Scientific theories are more sceptical than dream
dictionaries about how much dreams actually reveal.

C) Some scientists claim that infants may fail to react to a
threat in an appropriate way because it is usually
difficult for them to appreciate inputs.

D) Dreaming has recently been seen as something that
opens a window to the working of the mind.

D) Although this process has been established by several
studies, there is some debate about how infants do it.

E) Dream interpretations seem relevant to our lives
because they apply equally well to almost everybody.

E) Most infants, on the other hand, pay close attention to
the events that take place in their environment,
particularly after the first month.

21

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH

74. For centuries, people have bred microorganisms for
the production of foods such as cheese and yogurt.
Genetic technology takes this process a step further
by manipulating specific genes for practical
applications in research, medicine, and agriculture.
The manipulation of genes resulted in hundreds of
new products at the beginning of the 21st century.
---- The tools used by scientists in this process
include DNA-splitting enzymes and host organisms
including a range of bacteria.

75. Striving to eat healthily can, ironically, become an
unhealthy obsession. People with the condition
known as ‘orthorexia nervosa’ are fixated on
consuming food in a way that they consider pure,
clean or healthy to the point where their well-being
suffers. They can, for example, become
malnourished. ---- Some cut out entire food groups
like fats or carbs. Orthorexia is not yet listed in
psychiatric manuals, but it is described in scientific
journals.

A) Usually, one gene prevails over the other and is thus
called the dominant gene that supresses the other.

A) The term ‘orthorexia nervosa’, which refers to
a pathological fixation on eating only healthy foods,
was coined by Steven Bratman, a Colorado physician.

B) Currently there are a number of technologies that use
genetic engineering.

B) Experts generally link orthorexia with perfectionism,
dieting, obsessive-compulsive traits and mental health
struggles.

C) Genes are individual segments of DNA within
chromosomes and are known to affect all human
traits.

C) That is because, as the disorder progresses, patients
often become increasingly restrictive in what they will
eat.

D) Reproduction entails a copy of a gene from the father
and a gene from the mother joining together.

D) If people cannot deal with such problems in a proper
way, then it could be of high importance for them to
talk to a mental health professional.

E) Genes from different species are often combined by
inserting a gene from one organism into another.

E) Interestingly, and in contrast to many other eating
disorders, gender does not seem to reduce the risk of
getting orthorexia.

22

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH

76-80: For these questions, choose the irrelevant
sentence in the passage.

78. (I) All human muscles contain both slow and fast fibres,
but muscles differ in the percentage of each. (II) The
percentage of each fibre type in a particular muscle also
varies from person to person. (III) For example, in the
quadriceps muscles of the legs, most marathon runners
have about 80% slow fibres, whereas sprinters have
about 60% fast fibres. (IV) It is unusual to find a runner
who competes equally well in both 100-m and 10,000-m
races; runners just seem to feel comfortable running
races of particular lengths. (V) These differences, which
are genetically determined, undoubtedly help account
for our differing athletic capabilities.

76. (I) Children, adolescents and adults sometimes fear the
challenge of sustained, formal speaking before large
groups. (II) Teachers can help reduce unrealistic fears
by pointing out how common they are among people
and what to do about them in order to reduce such fears
by providing opportunities for students to practice alone
or with one other student and then before increasingly
larger groups. (III) Thus, students can practice speaking
in front of their peers who face the same situation
while presenting information, answering questions and
holding group discussions. (IV) Students need to know
how speakers differ from one another and how particular
circumstances call for different forms of speech.
(V) Practising oral presentation in these ways can lessen
students’ anxieties while, at the same time, helping
them to learn the subject matter of the lesson.
A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

A) I

E) V

B) II

C) III

D) IV

C) III

D) IV

E) V

79. (I) The Aztecs, who developed a great but short-lived
civilisation in central Mexico, are descendants of a
warlike tribe known as the Toltecs. (II) According to the
Aztecs, their original homeland was an island in a lake
called Aztlan, which means 'White Land'. (III) In the 10th
century AD, the Toltecs built a great city called Tula to
the north of what is now Mexico City. (IV) But only two
and a half centuries later, in the middle of the 12th
century, the Toltecs were conquered by a nomadic tribe
called the Chicimeca. (V) After that, the Toltecs
dispersed in all directions, leaving a legacy of legends
and religious traditions that would become important
elements of Aztec culture.

77. (I) Whale sharks, Rhincodon typus, are the biggest fish
on Earth, reaching up to 20 metres long and
weighing up to 20 tonnes. (II) Despite their size, the
slow-moving giants are not dangerous to humans.
(III) Whale sharks tend to cluster at various coastal
areas, drawn by seasonal increases in prey, including
zooplankton blooms and fish spawning. (IV) Juveniles
have been known to play with divers. (V) But humans
are a threat to them, with the species considered
endangered as numbers decline from fishing, accidental
capture alongside other fish, and collisions with vessels.
A) I

B) II

A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V

E) V

23

Go on to the next page.

2021-YDS/1/ENGLISH

80. (I) Crocodiles and alligators are the biggest living
reptiles. (II) A crocodile is specialised at hunting in the
water. (III) Although they look rather like lizards, they are
actually more closely related to birds, and to the giant
dinosaurs that disappeared from the Earth about 66
million years ago. (IV) These creatures lived alongside
the dinosaurs millions of years ago, and probably
preyed on them using the same ambush tactics that
modern saltwater crocodiles use to kill buffalo. (V) They
have not changed much since then, because they have
not needed to ─ they have always been perfectly
adapted for their way of life.
A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V