
1-6: For these questions, choose the best word or
expression to fill the space.

4. The population of koalas dropped ---- during the
early part of the 20th century because they were
over-hunted for their fur.

1. Attaining ---- in the current job is a basic career
strategy, given that organisations make promotion
decisions, at least in part, on an employee’s
present performance.
A) assurance

B) competence

C) balance

D) recession

A) strictly

B) drastically

C) cautiously

D) ardently
E) merely

E) insurance

5. When neurological issues like aphasia and
dyslexia arise, they often ---- themselves in the
things we say and how we say them.
2. Despite its being a remote and harsh environment,
there is ---- about ownership of the North Pole as
there could be rich natural resources beneath the
ice.
A) discrimination

B) substitution

C) exposure

D) controversy

A) alienate

B) improve

C) manifest

D) diminish
E) receive

E) neglect
6. When you cook meat, a chemical reaction turns
creatine into a group of compounds called
heterocyclic amines and there is some evidence that
these compounds ---- cancer in high concentrations.
3. The reasons for an urban climate are heat storage,
trapping of radiation, increasing roughness and less
evaporation, which are seen in cities worldwide but
are most ---- in densely built-up megacities.
A) evident

B) arbitrary

C) convenient

D) constructive

A) rely on

B) break into

C) pass for

D) call off
E) lead to

E) mediocre

1

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH

7-16: For these questions, choose the best
word(s) or expression(s) to fill the space(s).

9. While many people welcome the chance ---- exotic
foods or novel flavours, others do not even consider
---- foods beyond their usual repertoire.
A) to be tasting / having consumed

7. Recently, nutritional scientists ---- strong evidence
that the eating, drinking, and exercise habits of the
Mediterranean people ---- a major role in their low
risk for heart disease.

B) tasting / to have consumed
C) to have tasted / to be consuming

A) uncover / are playing

D) having tasted / to consume

B) are uncovering / had been playing

E) to taste / consuming

C) have uncovered / play
D) may uncover / have played
E) uncovered / had played

10. People intuitively tend to equate happiness ---freedom, however without obstacles ---- our desires
it is harder to know what we really want, let alone
fulfilling them.
8. There are some people who ---- objects from 6
metres away with the same sharpness that a
normal-sighted person ---- in to 4.5 metres to
achieve.

A) between / on

B) with / to

C) at / into

D) in / among
E) for / from

A) may view / had to move
B) must view / could move
C) can view / would have to move
D) ought to view / should have moved

11. People who feel strongly that they do not want to be
awake and alert ---- certain procedures may not be
good candidates ---- local or regional anaesthesia.

E) might view / can move

A) through / at

B) by / with

C) during / for

D) upon / to
E) against / about

2

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH

12. ---- social media has become widely integrated into
everyday life, there is a growing interest in
understanding its impact and the norms of online
conduct.

15. ---- you are a long-time fan ---- casual follower of the
series of Street Fighter, you are already well-aware
that it is constantly updated with new characters,
costumes, and story content.

A) Supposing that

B) Although

A) Both / and

B) Neither / nor

C) Now that

D) As much as

C) Rather / than

D) Whether / or

E) While

E) Not only / but also

13. For many years, social researchers regarded gossip
as unworthy of scientific investigation; ----,
sociologists have recently begun to recognise
gossip as an important feature of social life.

16. ---- many individual cases of malicious data leaks
online that have caught the public eye, there has
been very little research examining the scale of the
problem.

A) accordingly

B) in other words

A) Similar to

B) Due to

C) however

D) as a result

C) As a result of

D) In accordance with

E) for example

E) Despite

14. In diabetic patients, even though food intake may be
increased, weight loss can occur ---- muscles and
fat stores may shrink as they are not getting the
necessary glucose.
A) because

B) given that

C) as long as

D) although
E) in case

3

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH
17-21: For these questions, choose the best
word or expression to fill the spaces in the
passage.

18.
A) cannot be exposed
B) are not exposed

Elvis Presley is the single most significant figure in rock
and roll history, and it is hard to imagine rock and roll
without his contributions. (17)---- revolutionising the way
popular music sounded and looked, he forever changed
the way young people relate to music. Emerging from
the racially segregated American South in the
mid-1950s, he promoted racial harmony by making
African-American music accessible to millions of white
teens who (18)---- to it otherwise. Furthermore, in
popularising rock and roll (19)---- a worldwide audience,
Elvis almost single-handedly altered the parameters of
the entertainment industry. By many estimates, he
remains history’s biggest-selling recording artist. Elvis
certainly was not the first white person to perform music
rooted in black culture; (20)----, he was the first to fuse
elements of rhythm and blues, country, and gospel into
a charismatic package. Charismatic and overconfident
yet humble and polite, generous and charitable yet
selfish and tyrannical, Elvis (21)---- the contradictions of
his time and his genre, and this distinctive combination
of different musical styles still enchants too many people
around the world.

C) would not have been exposed
D) should not have been exposed
E) have not been exposed

19.

B) Regardless of

C) In contrast with

D) Despite

B) towards

C) for

D) against
E) without

17.
A) Instead of

A) under

20.

E) In addition to

A) for instance

B) as a result

C) in short

D) that is
E) however

21.
A) ceased

B) falsified

C) condemned

D) embodied
E) devastated

4

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH
22-26: For these questions, choose the best
word or expression to fill the spaces in the
passage.

24.

If you are locked in a constant struggle with your
willpower, here is some good news. There is some
evidence to show that thinking about new healthy habits
as opportunities (22)---- obligations can help you stay on
track. In a recent study at Yale University in the US,
people were trained to think about the positive (23)---- of
healthy foods. The researchers told them, for instance,
that broccoli was crunchy and delicious and that
(24)---- they ate it, they would feel good about
themselves. The results were striking. “We found that
we can actually get people to increase their cravings
(25)---- healthy foods.” says Hedy Kober, PhD, who
headed the study. In a second study, her team trained
people to engage in that same type of thinking
repeatedly. They discovered that if people practised
looking at healthy foods and considering their wonderful
qualities, it encouraged them (26)---- better dietary
choices and they consumed fewer calories in everyday
life.

A) if

B) although

C) moreover

D) unless
E) while

25.
A) to

B) into
D) for

C) on
E) in

26.
22.
A) because of

B) rather than

C) contrary to

D) according to

A) being made

B) to have made

C) making

D) make
E) to make

E) in spite of

23.
A) rations

B) possessions

C) attributes

D) structures
E) senses

5

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH

27-36: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the given sentence.

29. Because of the health hazards that lead poses for
humans and other animals, ----.
A) tetraethyl lead, which releases free lead to the
environment when broken down within an engine, has
been banned for use as a gasoline additive

27. Even though many people still remain unconvinced
that global warming is a real phenomenon, ----.
A) the evidence in support of man-made climate change
is quite overwhelming

B) lead compounds were once widely used for paints as
they covered surfaces well and were available in a
number of vivid colours

B) the consequences for our lives are still uncertain
and absolutely way too complex

C) lead has been popular as a covering for underground
cables, such as buried cables that carry telephone
messages

C) it is reassuring that everything around us changed
simply through chance

D) alloys of lead are quite popular for the manufacture of
solders; for example, ordinary plumber’s solder
contains about two parts of lead to one part of tin

D) some people reject the idea that it has been affecting
the entire world
E) the lack of some solid proof makes it hard to accept
the situation

E) today, physiologists understand that the human body
is able to excrete about two milligrams of lead
efficiently each day

28. ---- if doing so helps them to pursue the goals that
are aligned with their values.

30. Unless rich countries help poor ones adopt greener
technologies, ----.

A) Meditative practices may not be beneficial for
everyone with depression

A) some projects that lie in the heart of environmental
protection could come to a halt

B) The study of how people react to mind-altering
practices like meditation is still in its infancy

B) it is in their interest to help establish a sustainable
energy future for all the world’s inhabitants

C) Psychologically flexible people show willingness to
welcome uncomfortable states

C) they barely depend on fossil fuels, which are
damaging to both human health and the environment

D) Psychologists call the ability to walk through bad
experiences ‘resilience’

D) every country, regardless of their economic power, is
expected to contribute to global welfare

E) Those with lower than average signs of post-traumatic
stress disorder have higher scores of psychological
flexibility

E) energy consumption in the rich world would always
dwarf that in poor countries

6

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH

31. Provided that loan programmes are properly
designed, effectively managed and a high rate of
recovery is achieved, ----.

33. Today, the sanitary landfill is the major method of
disposing waste materials in North America and
other developed countries, ----.

A) an important feature of student loan schemes is that
they offer financial assistance and subsidies to
individual students, rather than to institutions

A) while some older landfills are being mined for useful
products such as methane gas that can be used as
fuel

B) there are important differences in the way different loan
programmes are administered, particularly in terms of
how they are operated

B) just as many tons of solid waste dumped in a landfill
today will not decompose until 30 years from now
C) as composting and burning up require uniformity in the
form and chemical properties of the waste for efficient
operation

C) implications for student loans of what is variously
described as international labour mobility or 'brain
drain' have received limited attention

D) because about 70% of materials that are routinely
disposed of in landfills could be recycled instead

D) student loans can make a valuable contribution to
relieving the financial pressures facing higher
education

E) though considerable efforts are being made to find
alternative methods, such as recycling and
composting

E) sound financial management is required to maintain
the capital value of the loan fund and cover
administrative costs

34. The popularity of many flat-faced dog breeds such
as French bulldogs has risen dramatically in recent
years ----.

32. Many researchers and clinicians observe that the
traditional Chinese medicine can hope to function in
full partnership with Western medicine ----.

A) because French bulldogs have short faces that can
make breathing difficult

A) even though some herbs are used routinely in therapy,
including treatment of some common diseases

B) even though French bulldogs are not seen as
dangerous as other dog breeds

B) only if practitioners pay attention to the most recent
discoveries made by immunological research studies

C) although there are regular assertions that they are
prone to many health issues

C) but Chinese doctors are well aware of the value of
using traditional medicine to cure diseases

D) given that there is limited reliable evidence on the
wider general health of flat-faced dogs

D) whenever there is a chance to get the medical
professionals in the West to question medical
practices

E) while it enables ongoing identification of breed
health-related priorities

E) as if the immunological effects were due to the
unknown or unrecognised substances in herbs

7

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH
37-42: For these questions, choose the most
accurate Turkish translation of the sentences in
English, and the most accurate English translation
of the sentences in Turkish.

35. The pleasures of chocolate, tea, and coffee drinking
have been known to humans for centuries, ----.
A) while caffeine is a member of the alkaloid family, a
group of compounds obtained from numerous plants

37. In 1991, two German mountaineers discovered the
mummy and personal artefacts of a man now called
as Ötzi the Iceman in the Ötztal Alps, which were
well-preserved in the ice for 5,300 years.

B) because full characterisation of caffeine’s molecular
structure was completed by a German chemist
C) since researchers identified the active agents in tea
and chocolate and gave them various names

A) 1991 yılında iki Alman dağcı Ötztal Alplerinde bir
adamın 5300 yıl boyunca buz içinde oldukça iyi bir
şekilde korunmuş mumyasını ve kişisel eşyalarını
bulmuşlardır ve bu adam günümüzde Buz Adam Ötzi
olarak anılmaktadır.

D) but the isolation of caffeine from these everyday treats
was accomplished only in the early 1800s
E) although caffeine is one of the most widely used
central nervous system stimulants worldwide

B) 1991 yılında iki Alman dağcı Ötztal Alplerinde,
günümüzde Buz Adam Ötzi olarak anılan bir adamın
5300 yıl boyunca buz içinde oldukça iyi bir şekilde
korunmuş mumyasını ve kişisel eşyalarını buldular.
C) Günümüzde Buz Adam Ötzi olarak anılan bir adamın
5300 yıl boyunca buz içinde oldukça iyi bir şekilde
korunmuş mumyası ve kişisel eşyaları, iki Alman dağcı
tarafından 1991 yılında Ötztal Alplerinde bulunmuştur.

36. Individuals with social phobia fear being humiliated
while doing something in public, ----.

D) İki Alman dağcı tarafından 1991 yılında Ötztal
Alplerinde bulunan ve günümüzde Buz Adam Ötzi
olarak anılan bir adamın mumyası ve kişisel eşyaları,
5300 yıl boyunca buz içinde oldukça iyi bir şekilde
korunmuştur.

A) because those who receive treatment can completely
overcome their fears in social life
B) and therefore they will avoid any situation in which
such participation may be required

E) 1991 yılında Ötztal Alplerinde iki Alman dağcı
tarafından 5300 yıl boyunca buz altında oldukça iyi bir
şekilde korunmuş mumyası ve kişisel eşyaları bulunan
adam, günümüzde Buz Adam Ötzi olarak
anılmaktadır.

C) as one of the most common manifestations of social
phobia involves public speaking
D) although they have intense fears of social interactions,
such as meeting others and dating
E) whereas it generally develops after puberty and peaks
after the age of 30

8

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH

38. Because salt is indispensable to life, and uniquely
flavours foods, humans have been preoccupied with
it since the beginning of recorded history.

39. Objectivity refers to perceiving and describing
something from as neutral and unbiased a
perspective as possible in order to produce
observations that can be verified by a trained
community of observers.

A) İnsanlar, tarih kayıt altına alınmaya başladığından bu
yana tuzla yakından ilgilenmişlerdir çünkü yaşam için
vazgeçilmez olan tuz, yiyecekleri eşsiz bir şekilde
tatlandırmaktadır.

A) Nesnellik, bir şeyi olabildiğince tarafsız ve önyargısız
bir bakış açısı üzerinden algılayıp betimlemenin yanı
sıra söz konusu şeyin eğitimli bir gözlemciler
topluluğu tarafından doğrulanabilmesi anlamına
gelmektedir.

B) İnsanlar kayıt altına alınan tarihin başlangıcından
itibaren yaşam için vazgeçilmez olan ve yiyeceklere
eşsiz bir tat veren tuzla yakından ilgilenmişlerdir.

B) Nesnellikten kastedilen, eğitimli bir gözlemciler
topluluğu tarafından gözlemlenebilecek algılamaları ve
betimlemeleri ortaya koymak ve bunun için mümkün
olduğunca tarafsız ve önyargısız bakış açıları
üretmektir.

C) İnsanların kayıt altına alınan tarihin başlangıcından
beri tuzla yakından ilgilenmesinin nedeni yiyeceklere
eşsiz bir biçimde tat vermesinin yanı sıra yaşam için
de vazgeçilmez olmasıdır.
D) Tuz, yaşam için vazgeçilmez olduğu ve yiyeceklere
eşsiz bir biçimde tat verdiği için insanlar kayıt altına
alınan tarihin başlangıcından beri tuzla yakından
ilgilenmişlerdir.

C) Eğitimli bir gözlemciler topluluğu tarafından
doğrulanabilecek gözlemler ortaya koyabilmek için bir
şeyi mümkün olduğunca tarafsız ve önyargısız bir
bakış açısıyla algılamak ve betimlemek gerekmektedir
ve bu da nesnellik olarak tanımlanır.

E) Yiyecekleri eşsiz bir biçimde tatlandıran tuz, yaşam
için vazgeçilmez olduğundan, tarihin ilk kayıt altına
alındığı andan itibaren insanoğlunu fazlasıyla
ilgilendirmiştir.

D) Nesnellik, eğitimli bir gözlemciler topluluğu tarafından
doğrulanabilecek gözlemler ortaya koymak için bir şeyi
mümkün olduğunca tarafsız ve önyargısız bir bakış
açısıyla algılamak ve betimlemek anlamını
taşımaktadır.
E) Bir şeyi mümkün olduğunca tarafsız ve önyargısız bir
bakış açısıyla algılamak ve betimlemek, nesnelliğin
eğitimli bir gözlemciler topluluğu tarafından
gözlemlenebilecek şekilde ortaya koyulmasına
bağlıdır.

9

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH

40. Yeni deneyimlere açık insanlar, görsel bilgiyi farklı
şekillerde işleme yeteneğine sahiptir ve bu,
yaratıcılıklarının artmasını sağlamaktadır, böylece bu
özelliğe sahip insanlar farklı bakış açıları sayesinde
diğerleri tarafından gözden kaçırılan çözümleri fark
etmede iyi olabilirler.
A) People who are open to new experiences have the
ability to boost their creativity by processing visual
information in different ways, so people with this trait
can be good at spotting solutions that others
overlooked, thanks to their diverse outlook.

41. Evlat edinme, ister sağlıklı bir yenidoğan isterse de
özel ihtiyacı olan herhangi bir yaştaki bir çocuk
olsun, bir aileye ihtiyacı olan tüm çocukların
gereksinimlerine uygun olarak sürekli gelişen bir
olgudur.
A) Adoption is a phenomenon that constantly evolves in
relation to the needs of any children who need
families, whether they are healthy newborns or
children of any age with special needs.
B) Adoption is a phenomenon involving the needs of
children, whether they are healthy newborns or
children at all ages with special needs, and it
constantly evolves to meet those needs.

B) People who are open to new experiences have the
ability to spot solutions overlooked by others thanks to
their diverse outlook, which is a trait that enables
these people to process visual information in different
ways and helps boost their creativity.

C) The phenomenon of adoption evolves constantly to fit
the needs of all children in need of families, be it
healthy newborns or children of any age with special
needs.

C) People who have the ability to process visual
information in different ways that boost their creativity
are open to new experiences; therefore, people with
this trait can be good at spotting solutions overlooked
by others, thanks to their diverse outlook.

D) Adoption refers to a phenomenon that constantly
evolves in order to meet the needs of children needing
families, be it healthy newborns or children of all ages
with special needs.

D) People who have the ability to be open to new
experiences process visual information in different
ways to boost their creativity, so people with diverse
outlook might be good at spotting solutions that others
overlook, thanks to this trait.

E) The phenomenon of adoption, ranging from healthy
newborns to children of all ages with special needs,
constantly evolves to fit the needs of any children who
need families.

E) People who are open to new experiences have the
ability to process visual information in different ways
and this helps boost their creativity, so people with this
trait might be good at spotting solutions overlooked by
others, thanks to their diverse outlook.

10

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH

42. Vücudun akciğerleri koruyan mekanizmaları
olmasına rağmen, akciğerlerde biriken birçok madde
vardır ve bunlar akciğerlerde tekrarlayan iritasyona
veya uzun süreli hastalığa yol açabilir.
A) Although the body has mechanisms that protect the
lungs, there are many substances that deposit in the
lungs and these may cause recurrent irritation to the
lungs or lead to long-term illness.
B) Many substances can deposit in the lungs and cause
recurring irritation to the lungs that leads to long-term
illness even though various mechanisms of the body
protect the lungs.
C) Despite the protective mechanisms of the body, lots of
substances may deposit in the lungs that can cause
long-term illness by causing recurrent irritation to the
lungs.
D) Even if there are mechanisms of the body for the
protection of the lungs, many substances may deposit
in the lungs and lead to long-term illness as a result of
recurring irritation.
E) Although the body protects the lungs through various
mechanisms, many substances can cause long-term
illness by depositing in the lungs and leading to
recurring irritation.

11

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH
43-46: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

44. It can be understood from the passage that ----.
A) the 1994 agreement attracted a lot of foreign
investment to Azerbaijan

Azerbaijan’s transformation is particularly impressive
considering that twenty-seven years ago it was involved
in a deep political and economic crisis. Amid post-Soviet
uncertainty, the economy was in free fall, with a severe
contraction in output and growing inflation. The revival of
the country’s economy followed the introduction of a
new oil strategy which encompassed a series of
production sharing agreements, and the opening of
Azerbaijan’s historic oil sector to international
investment. A 1994 agreement, hailed as the ‘contract
of the century’, gave investors access to Azerbaijan’s
rich oil fields in the Caspian Sea. The resulting inflow of
capital and expertise permanently altered the country’s
fortunes. Large-scale production and the construction of
multiple pipelines contributed to making Azerbaijan one
of the world’s largest oil and gas exporters. Azerbaijan’s
biggest challenge today is diversifying away from
hydrocarbons (chemicals found in petrol and natural
gas), which represent more than 90 percent of the
country’s total exports, a 60 percent increase from
fifteen years ago. The country expects to capitalise on
hydrocarbons for at least another forty years, but oil
production is believed to have peaked and Azerbaijan
must do more for its non-oil economy. For the
government this is a clear priority.

B) Azerbaijan’s economic development would have been
impossible without Soviet aid
C) Azerbaijan has become a preferred destination to
which other countries export gas
D) the country’s greatest challenge is how to best take
advantage of the Caspian Sea
E) the country’s new oil strategy is questionable, given
the limited amount of foreign investment

45. The underlined word in the passage ‘hailed’ is
closest in meaning to ----.
A) praised
D) ceased

B) ignored

C) recruited
E) retained

46. According to the passage, for further economic
development Azerbaijan needs to ----.

43. It is clearly stated in the passage that more than a
quarter of a century ago Azerbaijan ----.

A) abandon hydrocarbons as soon as possible

A) became a politically developed and economically
competitive country

B) revise the 1994 agreement to make it more profitable

B) was entangled in serious administrative and financial
difficulties

C) seek other sources of income as alternatives for oil

C) was in a problematic situation in terms of infrastructure
and services

D) focus on expanding the uses of oil and the range of
markets where it is sold

D) was economically and politically more stable but
suffered from rising inflation

E) find more efficient ways of obtaining more oil from the
Caspian Sea

E) experienced strong economic growth thanks to
post-Soviet investors

12

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH
47-50: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

48. It is stated in the passage that Jacques Derrida’s
book Of Grammatology ----.
A) is considered to be the cornerstone of his works

Deconstruction – the method which claims there is no
single explanation of the meaning of a piece of writing –
in and of itself, is almost dead, but it retains enormous
influence on current critical thinking. While
deconstruction itself peaked in the late 1970s, an
evolving version of deconstruction has been absorbed
by later thinking and often remains crucial to, and even
taken for granted by, contemporary cultural and literary
criticism. The founding figure and the intellectual force
behind deconstruction was Jacques Derrida. His first
widely influential book, Of Grammatology, appeared in
French in 1967, and many of his later writings recast or
extend the ideas of Of Grammatology for other contexts
and issues. Advocates and popularisers saw his ideas
as so revolutionary that they put him in the same light as
Copernicus, Newton, Einstein, and Freud. Although
Derrida was primarily a philosopher, his work had little
impact on philosophy until after its shock wave
hit literary studies. Deconstruction has since carried its
influence far beyond literary studies, not only to
philosophy but also to all of the humanities and often to
the social sciences.

B) has had a bigger influence on philosophy than the field
of literature
C) was an important extension of the ideas of some
French philosophers
D) dwells upon the ideas of such prominent thinkers like
Einstein and Freud
E) was considerably influenced by other contexts and
issues of his time

49. Derrida is seen in the same line with Copernicus,
Newton, Einstein, and Freud because he ----.
A) was their contemporary
B) was as popular as they were
C) influenced many other fields of study as they did
D) had groundbreaking ideas like them

47. According to the passage, deconstruction lost its
previous power ----.

E) was also a philosopher

A) because it could hardly evolve after its peak in the late
1970s
B) long before the 1970s, when various different
philosophical movements appeared
C) and was forgotten for several years because of the
obsolete ideas it promotes

50. According to the passage, which of the following is
true about deconstruction?

D) but still achieves a considerable impact on cultural and
literary criticism

A) It has extended far beyond the boundaries of
humanities and social sciences.

E) as a result of its excessive preoccupation with current
cultural criticism

B) It made literary studies more significant than others.
C) It helped Derrida to become a literary critic.
D) It was not fully appreciated in some fields of study.
E) It has evolved over time and made its way to modern
studies as well.

13

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH
51-54: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

52. It is understood from the passage that the chemical
dimethyl sulphide ----.
A) plays an important role in decreasing the temperatures
on Earth

What goes around comes around. Our greenhouse gas
emissions do not just warm the planet, they also acidify
the oceans; however, it is a fact that most people are
not aware of. Now it turns out that the changes in ocean
chemistry they cause will feed back into the climate,
further driving up temperatures. This was not always
thought to be true. Climatologists had considered that
carbon dioxide (CO2) absorbed by the ocean was
stored, and unable to affect the climate. But a study now
suggests that the acidification it causes will rebound on
the entire planet, by acting on tiny marine plants called
phytoplankton. These plants produce a chemical called
dimethyl sulphide (DMS) that drifts up into the air and
reflects sunlight back into space, cooling the planet.
Katharina Six and her team at the Max Planck Institute
for Meteorology in Hamburg gathered experimental data
showing that phytoplankton produce less DMS as
seawater becomes less alkaline due to acidification.
After entering these figures into climate models, they
estimate that 18 percent less DMS will be released from
the oceans by the year 2100, compared to pre-industrial
times. If the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere
doubles, which is likely to happen later this century,
temperatures are expected to rise between 2 and 4.5°C.
Ocean acidification will add between 0.23 and 0.48°C to
that figure, Six estimates.

B) leads to acidification by reflecting sunlight back
C) is produced when marine plants reflect sunlight back
into space
D) is the direct result of acidification in the oceans
E) is produced in less alkaline seawater

53. According to the data collected by Six and her team,
----.
A) DMS released from the oceans will drop to 18 percent
in 2100
B) climate models of pre-industrial times indicated 18
percent less acidification
C) less production of DMS causes seawater to become
less alkaline
D) phytoplankton produced more DMS before
industrialisation
E) the rise in temperatures will be far more than 5°C later
this century

51. According to the passage, greenhouse gas
emissions ----.
A) are mainly caused by the rise in acid levels in the
oceans
B) are responsible for changes in ocean chemistry

54. What is the main aim of the author of this passage?

C) enable oceans to absorb and store carbon dioxide

A) To prove that greenhouse gas emissions affect the
climate more than acidification

D) are considered to be less harmful than the chemical
changes in oceans

B) To reveal the major effects of temperature rise on the
planet

E) impact the temperatures less than they did in the past

C) To inform the reader about a lesser-known effect of
greenhouse gas emissions
D) To tell people about the effects of industrialisation on
the climate
E) To give specific advice about cooling down the planet

14

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH
55-58: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

56. It is pointed out in the passage that learning a new
language ----.
A) may help improve attention

So far, only two types of mental exertion have been
shown to improve or preserve overall cognitive ability.
One is musical training. Experts state that listening to
and making music is not only an auditory experience; it
is a multisensory and motor experience. Playing an
instrument changes how the brain interprets and
integrates a wide range of sensory information, and
making music over a long period of time can change
brain function and brain structure. The other is to learn a
new language. As for the role of language-learning in
brain power, a study carried out among students
revealed that attention gets better when a new language
is studied intensively even if it is for a short time and it
gets even better when more practice is done for longer.
The results of the study confirm the cognitive benefits of
language-learning and give important and warming
messages: firstly, even a short, intensive course can
show beneficial effects on some cognitive functions.
Secondly, this effect can be maintained through
practice. So, we can say that it is never too late to start
a mental activity such as learning a new language.

B) fixes several types of brain damages
C) prevents various mental disorders
D) could strengthen motor skills
E) improves sensory awareness

57. According to the passage, the study done on
students shows that ----.
A) it is possible to improve the brain even with a short,
intensive course of language learning
B) those who start to learn a new language at a young
age eliminate their risk of cognitive disability
C) learning a new language requires more practice than
playing an instrument

55. One can understand from the passage that playing a
musical instrument ----.

D) language learning can improve overall functioning of
the brain when practised for a long time

A) has a positive impact on how our brain responds to
different stimuli

E) there are substantial benefits of language learning
when it is combined with musical training

B) does not influence our brain functions when done
temporarily
C) is the best way of preserving cognitive ability
D) has little impact on motor skills as it is an auditory
experience

58. Which of the following best describes the author’s
attitude towards learning a new language?

E) does not have an instant impact on brain functions
unlike listening to music

A) Encouraging

B) Doubtful

C) Pessimistic

D) Neutral
E) Critical

15

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH
59-62: Answer these questions according to the
passage below.

60. What point does Richmond make about
contamination in the passage?
A) It affects invertebrates more than the larvae, flies and
beetles if it stems from river-borne pharmaceuticals.

When we take medication, some can pass through us
intact and go down the toilet. Once in the sewers,
these drugs are not removed during the treatment
process, and end up in the waterways. To find out how
pharmaceutical waste finds its way into aquatic
creatures, Erinn Richmond at Monash University in
Australia and her colleagues sampled flies, beetles,
other insects and spiders from six waterways in the
greater Melbourne region. Overall, the group detected
69 medications in the invertebrates. Organisms near
wastewater plants contained the highest levels, but low
levels were also detected in those from more pristine
areas. Richmond presumes river-borne pharmaceuticals
probably accumulate in flies and beetles while they are
underwater larvae, then transfer to spiders that feed on
them after they emerge as adults. Other predators in the
food web such as fish, platypuses, birds, bats and frogs
may also become cross-contaminated, she says. Her
team calculated that trout and platypuses feeding on
insects near wastewater plants would consume
anti-depressant doses up to half the level normally
prescribed to humans. The impacts of this are not
certain, but previous studies have found that high-level
exposure to anti-depressants causes fish to become less
vigilant about avoiding predators. Male birds also seem
to sing less to females when exposed to the drugs.

B) It can indirectly influence a wide range of predators
regardless of whether they live in water or not.
C) It is caused mainly by 69 types of medication which
are not properly absorbed by the body during
treatment.
D) It occurs as a result of high anti-depressant
consumption in more clean and wealthy districts.
E) It can have deadly effects, especially on platypuses
and trout as they eat waste polluted by
anti-depressants.

61. It is stated in the passage that anti-depressants ----.
A) can impact the way male and female spiders interact
with each other
B) can make fish more vulnerable to attack as prey
C) can have similar side effects on platypuses as they
have on humans
D) have failed to produce noticeable effects on
invertebrates

59. It can be understood from the passage that
medicine ----.

E) have more adverse effects on underwater animals than
other medication

A) may not be very effective if it is recycled from
pharmaceutical waste
B) eliminated in the treatment stage still poses a hazard
to aquatic creatures and insects
C) is likely to threaten some animal populations in
water when it reaches waterways without being
destroyed

62. What could be the best title for this passage?
A) How to Detect Medications in Underwater Creatures

D) gives harm to only aquatic creatures whose habitats
are confined to areas surrounding wastewater plants

B) Optional Wastewater Treatment Strategies
C) River Pollution Caused by Wastewater Plants

E) turns into pharmaceutical waste when it is consumed
more than the recommended amount

D) When Medications Become a Contaminant
E) Which Medical Waste Does Affect Invertebrates?

16

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH

63-67: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the dialogue.

64. Eleanor:
 I wonder what might happen if human beings
disappeared.

63. Sebastian:
 Preparing tasty meals in the woods is a wonderful
thought. But somehow it’s easy to go overboard
with backpacking menus. You think you must
pack this in order to eat that and you need all the
other items to prepare it properly.

Chidi:
 Well, I was reading an article about it and it
said plant and animal species that have formed
close bonds with humanity are the most likely to
suffer.
Eleanor:
 How is that?

Graham:
 That’s silly. What the body needs is simple. It
needs water more than anything else. In fact, you
can survive without food for at least a week.

Chidi:
 ---Eleanor:
 I see. So, this probably means they will be
outcompeted by other plants and the animals that
feed on them will probably vanish too.

Sebastian:
 ---Graham:
 Almost anything you eat out there is going to
taste great because you will be very hungry and,
after all, you’re outdoors!

A) To be honest, I’m not sure, but one theory holds that
intelligent life developed because it helped our
ancestors to survive the environmental shocks that
they had experienced.

A) I don’t think I’m alone on this one, but energy bars,
fruit and trail mix will keep you going.

B) You know the crops that feed the world are reliant on
fertilisers that we use. When we are gone, fertilisers
will not be used, and those plants might be replaced
by their wild forebears.

B) Think about it: No cooking, no clean up and less to
carry on your back.
C) Well then, what do you suggest I put into my backpack
so as not to starve out there?

C) The animals that were closer to us helped individuals
and themselves to reproduce in large social groups.
This was proof enough that they had good genes.

D) You think so? Don’t you think I should try something
less risky then?

D) The decades following human extinction will be of
devastating oil spills, chemical leaks and explosions of
varying sizes. I mean all the ticking bombs that
humanity has left behind.

E) Needless to say, you must have water on a regular
basis or the body breaks down.

E) I can say traces of humankind will remain, even
millions of years after our end. For instance, microbes
will need lots of time to consume all the plastics we've
left behind.

17

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH

65. Scott:
 On my geography course, we are learning about
capital cities of Europe. Can you name any of
these cities?

66. Alison:
 Did you know that oysters are used to mitigate
coastal erosion and flooding due to the rise in sea
levels?

Debbie:
 The one I’m thinking of is Budapest, the capital of
Hungary. Where did the name 'Budapest' come
from, by the way?

Kyle:
 ---Alison:
 But those efforts have detrimental effects on
near-shore habitats. Constructing breakwater
reefs from oysters has been found to support a
higher abundance and different communities of
fishes.

Scott:
 ---Debbie:
 Wow! I didn’t know that. So the history of the
name 'Budapest' is much simpler than I had
expected it would be.

Kyle:
 To be honest, I’d never have imagined that
oysters could be used to protect shorelines.

A) I’m not sure where the name comes from, but we can
search it on the Internet to find out.

A) I know it’s forcing many to migrate to higher ground
and leaving millions at risk of demise.

B) The name of the capital city has always been
Budapest. If you study the history of Hungary, this is
one fact you will learn.

B) There are breakwaters and seawalls already in use to
prevent such incidences.

C) Budapest is made up of two cities separated by the
Danube River. One town was Buda and the other
Pest; when the cities were merged, so were their
names.

C) I think certain measures have to be implemented to
control oyster harvesting.
D) I don’t think oysters would be resilient enough to
withstand major changes in sea levels.

D) Good question! When I asked my Hungarian friends
about it, they told me there are some myths about its
origin but they're all just myths anyway.

E) To protect the oyster reefs, there must be a system to
ensure their sustainability.

E) Well, someone with a sense of humour claimed it had
something to do with the Buddha, but just because
they sound the same doesn’t mean they are related!

18

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH

68-71: For these questions, choose the best
rephrased form of the given sentence.

67. Paul:
 We’ll need to be careful about not getting Dengue
Fever on our Central American tour.

68. The story of King Solomon meeting the Queen of
Sheba inspired a rich literary tradition across
Jewish, Christian and Islamic texts, although the
geographic origins of the story still puzzle scholars
to this day.

Sarah:
 What’s Dengue Fever? I’ve never heard of that.
Paul:
 It’s some sort of viral infection spread by
mosquitoes.

A) Still confusing scholars about where it took place, the
story of the meeting between King Solomon and the
Queen of Sheba gave rise to a rich literary tradition
throughout Jewish, Christian and Islamic texts.

Sarah:
 Well, that’s definitely not something I want to get.
How about we just stay in larger cities so that we
avoid mosquito-infested areas?

B) The geographic origins of the story of King Solomon
meeting the Queen of Sheba remain a mystery for
scholars, although they acknowledge its impact on the
rich literary tradition across Jewish, Christian and
Islamic texts.

Paul:
 ---Sarah:
 Then let’s read up on how to prevent mosquito
bites to avoid getting bitten in the first place.

C) The scholars studying the rich literary tradition in
Jewish, Christian and Islamic texts still remain
confused about the story and geographic origins of the
meeting between King Solomon and the Queen of
Sheba.

A) In truth, mosquitoes usually bite during the daytime
and are often found indoors.
B) Well, Dengue Fever usually causes flu-like symptoms,
including fever, muscle and joint pains, nausea and
vomiting.

D) While inspired by the story of the meeting that took
place between the King Solomon and the Queen of
Sheba, scholars are still confused about the
geographic origins of rich traditional Jewish, Christian
and Islamic texts.

C) In fact, the guide book says there are some amazing
cities along our tour so I’m absolutely on board with
that idea.

E) The story of King Solomon meeting the Queen of
Sheba has prompted scholars to create a rich literary
tradition in Jewish, Christian and Islamic texts, but the
only thing that has still not been clarified is the exact
location of this meeting.

D) Actually, since mosquitoes breed in artificial water
containers like thrown away jars and cans, it’s
common in populated urban areas.
E) Apparently, treatment involves pain killers, plenty of
fluids and even hospitalisation if it’s severe.

19

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH

69. As people age, the ability of white blood cells to deal
with infections and respond to vaccinations
declines, opening the door for illness or
inflammation that can lead to chronic disease over
time.

70. With bodies rarely above 15 cm long, tarsiers are
one of the world’s smallest meat-eating primates
living off largely insects, reptiles and birds.
A) Just as tarsiers have small bodies mainly under 15 cm
in length, they feed off mainly insects, reptiles and
birds as the smallest carnivore primate.

A) When people age, chronic diseases caused by illness
and inflammation increase because white blood cells
dealing with infections and responding to vaccinations
diminish in number over time.

B) Tarsiers, which have bodies barely longer than 15 cm,
are among the tiniest carnivorous primates consuming
mostly insects, reptiles and birds.

B) As people age, white blood cells to deal with infections
and respond to vaccinations lose their strength, and
this causes chronic diseases accompanied with illness
and inflammation.

C) Since tarsiers are under 15 cm in length and they have
meat in their diet like insects, reptiles and birds, they
are one of the world’s smallest meat-eating primates.

C) While aging, people lose the ability to deal with
infections and respond to vaccinations due to the
decline in their white blood cells, that is why chronic
diseases due to inflammation increase over time.

D) Living among mostly insects, reptiles and birds,
tarsiers are one of the few tiny carnivorous primates
and have a body that is barely more than 15 cm in
length.

D) As people age, white blood cells lose the strength to
deal with infections as well as respond to vaccinations,
and this may cause illness or inflammation that leads
to chronic disease as time progresses.

E) Tarsiers are one of the world’s smallest primates that
prefer meat in the form of mainly insects, reptiles and
birds whose bodies are rarely above 15 cm long.

E) Illness and inflammation can lead to chronic diseases
as people age and this is because of the white blood
cells’ incapacity to deal with infections and respond to
vaccinations over time.

20

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH
72-75: For these questions, choose the best
option to complete the missing part of the
passage.

71. While the growth of cities may be associated with
increasing prosperity, urban areas demonstrate the
world’s most obvious health disparities in both lowand high-income countries.

72. Many ancient Greek writers told of a race of women
warriors who were descended from Ares, the god of
war, and the nymph Harmonia. They were said to
live without men, wear masculine clothing, and
spend their days hunting, farming, and above all
fighting. ---- Researchers have only found traces of
a people, the Sauromatians, whose women hunted
and fought alongside their men. Nevertheless, the
myth of the Amazons was popular; classical writers
repeated the tales, and artists portrayed the Amazon
women prominently in their art.

A) The largest disparities in health are observed in both
low- and high-income countries due to increasing
prosperity that is connected to the growth of cities.
B) As a result of the growth of cities with the purpose of
creating more wealth, both low- and high-income
countries have developed urban areas with health
inequalities in the world.
C) Both low- and high-income countries are experiencing
the most obvious problem of health inequalities as the
growth of cities has produced increasing wealth in
urban areas.

A) In fact, they were placed in variety of geographical
locations, the most mentioned of which is an area near
the Black Sea.

D) It is possible to link the growth of cities to more wealth;
however, urban areas both in low- and high-income
countries are places with the most apparent health
inequalities in the world.

B) However, there has been no archaeological evidence
that proves the existence of such a tribe of women
warriors.

E) The growth of cities is linked to an increase in
prosperity as long as there is the apparent issue of
urban health discrepancies in both low- and
high-income countries of the world.

C) Thus, the women were believed to be the fighters,
rulers, and administrators; the men, looked after the
home and reared the children.
D) So, Amazonian customs generated attention from
ancient authors who were drawn to speculations about
exotic women.
E) Moreover, for most of the writers, the Amazons lived
not only far away but also in a distant time usually
before or during the Trojan War.

21

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH

73. Toxic behaviour is common in the workplace. In
part, it grows from selfishness and callousness that
can manifest in extreme form from certain character
disorders that do not recede after work hours and
are particularly destructive to interpersonal
relationships. ---- The spirit of the times plays a role
as well. Periods of cultural turbulence, instability
and uncertainty tend to stimulate and release hostile
behaviours that play on the fears of others. Whether
it turns up in the conference room or the home,
toxic behaviour has a negative emotional impact
beyond its immediate cause.

74. Misinformation is perhaps an inevitable part of the
world we live in, but it is not a new problem. ---Deceiving others can offer an apparent opportunity
to gain strategic advantage, to motivate others to
action, or to even protect interpersonal bonds.
Moreover, people inadvertently have been sharing
inaccurate information with one another for
thousands of years. However, we currently live in an
era in which technology enables information to
reach large audiences distributed across the globe,
and thus the potential for immediate and
widespread effects from misinformation now looms
larger than in the past.

A) Toxic behaviour can also be the product of work
environments where productivity is the only measure
for success or where there is an atmosphere of
mistrust.

A) People have likely told lies to one another for roughly
as long as verbal communication has existed.
B) Yet, certain patterns of communication and the
facilitated spread of information might solve this
problem.

B) A toxic boss behaves like a dictator whose rudeness is
matched by bullying and the implementation of other
offensive actions towards workers.

C) Indeed, misinformation is concerning because of its
potential to unduly influence attitudes and behaviour.

C) Toxic behaviour does not just inflict personal harm, it
attacks the systematic well-being of entire groups and
organisations alike.

D) From an ethical perspective, many people worry most
about the active promotion of misinformation.

D) People who are subjected to toxic behaviour as a
target can be adversely physically affected in the
long-term.

E) However, media systems do not censor many types of
it before being put in content made available to
audiences.

E) Nearly half of all workers in one poll in 1998 reported
they were treated rudely at least once a week; a
number which increased to 62% in 2016.

22

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH

76-80: For these questions, choose the irrelevant
sentence in the passage.

75. Adaptive Business Intelligence (ABI) is the
discipline of combining prediction, optimisation,
and adaptability into a system capable of answering
these two fundamental questions: “What is likely to
happen in the future?” and “What is the best
decision right now?” To build such a system, we
first need to understand the methods and
techniques that enable prediction, optimisation, and
adaptability. At first glance, this subject matter is
nothing new, as hundreds of books and articles
have been written on business intelligence,
prediction methods, optimisation techniques, and
so forth. ---- ABI addresses this very issue.

76. (I) Commercial transactions are one of the most
fundamental uses of the Internet and can seem like one
of the simplest. (II) Services are bought and sold on a
similar basis to physical transactions. (III) Effective
automated recommendation systems have been a
priority for online retailers to understand, predict and
profit from their users’ behaviour. (IV) And with retail
goods, much as in many shops or catalogues, items are
selected, paid for and then delivery is arranged –either
by post, in the case of physical goods, or via download.
(V) Behind this, however, lies an administrative and
logistical network of immense complexity, above all
when it comes to processing financial transactions,
ensuring data security and dealing with the proliferating
forces of fraud and scamming.

A) This popular statement has been around for years as
business managers stored massive amounts of data in
the belief that they contain valuable insight.
B) Moreover, recent research in psychology indicates
widely held beliefs can actually hamper the
decision-making process.

A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V

C) The concept of adaptability is certainly gaining
popularity, and not just in the software sector; it can be
seen in running shoes or Internet search engines.
D) However, none of these has explained how to combine
these various technologies into a software system
capable of predicting, optimising, and adapting.

77. (I) Brain activity measurements conducted by the
University of Ontario showed a clear neurological
difference between being present at a show and seeing
it on screen. (II) There was far more ‘synchrony’ in the
brain waves of those who physically attended a live
performance, suggesting greater enjoyment and a
stronger sense of connectedness with the music and the
people around them. (III) Audiences of virtual gigs are
provided with the opportunity of multiple camera angles
to choose from, the option of broadcasting their
applause and the access to a live chat to make them
feel the atmosphere. (IV) But a concert’s impact is not
limited to short-term sensory thrills, or pleasurable tricks
that live music can play on your mind. (V) Attending
concerts lowers the secretion of stress hormone
‘cortisol’ while increasing levels of a steroid called
DHEA, which is associated with enhanced immune
function, lower cholesterol and improved muscle
deposition.

E) These products are very appealing for individual
consumers, because, despite their mass production,
they are capable of adapting to the preferences of
each unique owner.

A) I

23

B) II

C) III

D) IV

E) V

Go on to the next page

2021-YDS/2/ENGLISH

78. (I) It is little surprise studies have suggested that being
bilingual can help you learn a new language. (II) This
could be as bilingual people realise that there is no
intrinsic link between a word and its meaning. (III) Some
linguists have also theorised there are differences
between brains of polyglots (people who speak more
than one language) and monolinguals (those who speak
only one). (IV) Some people worry that bringing up a
child bilingually means they end up not speaking any
language ‘properly’. (V) However, the neuroscience
behind this is not clear: researchers are still not in full
agreement whether different languages are stored and
accessed together or separately in the brain.
A) I

B) II

C) III

D) IV

80. (I) Albert Einstein predicted the existence of gravitational
waves almost 100 years ago as a result of his general
theory of relativity. (II) With the discovery of other
galaxies beyond the Milky Way, scientific perception of
the universe had suddenly grown. (III) The German-born
theoretical physicist had said any accelerating mass
should produce ripples in the fabric of space-time that
propagate at the speed of light, which essentially means
that a change in gravity will spread as waves or ripples
through space. (IV) But decades of searching for
evidence had drawn a frustrating blank. (V) Yet, on 11
February 2016, it was announced that physicists at the
Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory
had sensed, for the very first time, a wave emanating
from a fraction-of-a-second collision of two black holes
located 1.3 billion light years away.
A) I
B) II
C) III
D) IV
E) V

E) V

79. (I) For almost 40 years, our nearest cosmic neighbour,
the Moon, was left alone as we looked somewhere else
in the Solar System. (II) That changed in 2013, when
China’s Chang’e 3 lander touched down on the lunar
surface. (III) Since then there has been an explosion of
interest in the Moon. (IV) The search for water as a
source of life even on the Moon is a constant point of
focus in the context of human exploration. (V) NASA,
China and even private companies are racing back to it,
with dozens of robotic and human missions being
planned.
A) I
B) II
C) III
D) IV
E) V